Title: What do Reward Models Memorize?

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.24484v1

Published Time: Tue, 28 Jul 2026 02:22:44 GMT

Number of Pages: 32

Markdown Content:
## What do Reward Models Memorize? 

Ivo Verhoeven , Pushkar Mishra , Ekaterina Shutova 

ILLC, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands 

Google DeepMind, London, United Kingdom 

i.o.verhoeven@uva.nl , pm576@cantab.ac.uk , e.shutova@uva.nl 

Abstract 

This paper studies what discriminatively trained reward models (RMs) memorize by measuring counterfactual memorization on two human preference datasets. We show that RMs 1) misallocate memorization to easy, high margin preference pairs, 2) memorize dataset-specific shortcuts (e.g., model identity, user sampling strategy), and 3) overgeneralize sim-ple heuristic correlates of human preference (e.g., length, compliance) when confronted with unseen preference pairs. Overall, our findings indicate that discriminative training of RMs from human preference data results in biased RMs not yet capable of judging response quality in context-dependent scenarios. 

7 https://github.com/ioverho/rm-shortcuts 

1 Introduction 

Converting general purpose Large Language Mod-els (LLMs) into human-preference aligned chat models requires maximizing a safety constrained user utility function. The predominant optimiza-tion paradigm for this is Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) (Askell et al., 2021; Ouyang et al., 2022; OpenAI, 2024). Learning algorithms belonging to this paradigm typically use a Reward Model (RM) as a proxy for the in-tangible, inconsistent, and often inaccessible true human utility function. An RM takes as input a user prompt and an LLM response, and outputs a scalar quality estimate. This RM can be explicit (e.g., PPO (Schulman et al., 2017)) or implicit (e.g., DPO (Rafailov et al., 2023)), but its guidance is crucial for the development of maximally helpful yet minimally harmful chat models. The use of an RM as a proxy for the true hu-man preference function comes with serious risks if the RM is misspecified. For example, the RM might overfit to the training data and memorize dataset-dependent heuristic shortcut features that correlate but do not cause human preference. This can induce reward hacking 1 during RLHF (Skalse et al., 2022; Gao et al., 2023). This leads to LLM output maximizing RM scores without increasing user utility, having never learned the underlying causes of human preference. Despite RLHF-optimized chat models being deemed safe enough for widespread public release, current research frequently reports LLM output behaviors indicative of reward hacking an overfit RM. For example, model responses are often overly verbose (Saito et al., 2023; Singhal et al., 2024); too affirming of a user’s subjective experience and framing (i.e., sycophancy) (Wang et al., 2026c; Cheng et al., 2025); too dependent on vague gen-eralities (Sharma et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2026c); reliant on discriminatory stereotypes or social prej-udices (Wang et al., 2025); excessively stylized or formatted (Bharadwaj et al., 2025); etc. The problem of rectifying these behaviors in LLM-based chat models has received a great deal of attention, yet the source of these behaviors re-mains unclear. If it is due to a misspecified, dataset-specific RM, what exactly is it that RMs memorize from a dataset? This paper explores RM memorization through the lens of counterfactual memorization (Feldman, 2020; Zheng and Jiang, 2022; Zhang et al., 2023; Dankers et al., 2023), which we associate with a set of hypothesis- and data-driven features found in two human preference datasets. From our find-ings, we propose 3 memorization patterns induced by discriminative training of RMs. Specifically, we find that RMs 1) misallocate memorization to easy, large human preference margin response pairs; 2) can and do memorize dataset-specific fea-tures not causally related to human preference (e.g., response model idiosyncracies or rater metadata); 

> 1Also known as reward overoptimization, specification gaming, Goodharting

1arXiv:2607.24484v1 [cs.LG] 27 Jul 2026 3) overgeneralize difference in simple heuristic fea-tures when presented with unseen preference pairs. Altogether, we find that discriminative RM train-ing yields models that are overly dependent on shortcuts and dataset-level biases, drawing into question the utility of such RMs for the develop-ment of more consistently safe and fair chat models while these memorization patterns remain in RMs. 

2 Related Work 

For the safe deployment of LLM based chat models, their behavior must be aligned to the preferences of judges capable of weighing conflicting principles against each other consistently (Buyl et al., 2025). Since these judges are often inaccessible, many RLHF pipelines use some form of RM as a proxy. A litany of prior work, however, has shown that RMs presently do not do this contextual weighting of principles. In some cases, this is due to RMs overinflating the importance of surface-level correlates of hu-man preference, i.e., overgeneralization. Examples include the dependence on differences in length (Saito et al., 2023; Singhal et al., 2024; Huang et al., 2024), formatting (Zhang et al., 2025b), style (Bharadwaj et al., 2025), and recently model iden-tity (Zhu et al., 2026). Prior work has also shown RMs to be insensitive to features that do cause human preference (Shen et al., 2023; Shao et al., 2025), or conversely, sen-sitive to features that are not causes (i.e., spurious correlates) (Liu et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2025). Furthermore, when RMs are replaced with sim-pler metrics that explicitly reward surface-level fea-tures and not human preference, this often leads to minimal performance degradation in RLHF fine-tuning (Singhal et al., 2024; Chang et al., 2025; Gehrmann, 2025). This can even be achieved with noisy or random rewards (Lv et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2026b). 

Recovering RM Features Cognizant of these find-ings, a recent line of research attempts to recover the features learned by RMs after training. Meth-ods include regressing against a set of LLM anno-tated features (Li et al., 2024; Revel et al., 2025), training Sparse Auto Encoders (SAEs) on response embedding differences (Movva et al., 2025), rein-forcement learning prompt prefixes (Alazraki et al., 2025) or training an evolutionary LLM pipeline (Wang et al., 2026a). However, the relationship of these features to RM memorization has not yet  

> Figure 1: Conceptual overview : We measure counter-actual memorization by taking the difference in proba-bility of preference for an RM when a preference pair is or is not in the training data. We use this to construct a ‘memorization map’, and try to determine what features are associated with different regions in this map.

been explored. 

Counterfactual Memorization & RMs Counter-factual memorization, as introduced by Feldman (2020) and Zhang et al. (2023) provides a graded definition of instance-level memorization. Dankers et al. (2023) use this to produce a memorization map (see Figure 1, allowing them to analyze which instance-level features impact memorization of ma-chine translation samples. While memorization in RLHF finetuned LLMs has been studied, this is primarily motivated by copyright or privacy concerns in LLM generations (Hartmann et al., 2023; Ghosh et al., 2025), to the best of our knowledge, no one has studied memo-rization in RMs specifically. Both Singhal et al. (2024) and Lee et al. (2025) produce dataset maps of human preference datasets, but using a distinctly different technique, and only for the purpose of estimating model confidence and data quality. These do not measure memorization, counterfactual or otherwise. 

3 Quantifying Memorization 

Let (xi, y i, 1, y i, 2, . . . ) ∼ D be a human preference dataset consisting of a user prompt x (with con-versational history prefixed), and a collection of candidate model responses y, ranked by humans for preference: j < k =⇒ yi,j ≻ yi,k . We only consider the case of pairwise human preference feedback without ties, such that there is always one preferred ( y+) and one dispreferred ( y−) response for any preference pair. 

Datasets We use two separate but related datasets: 1) PRISM (Kirk et al., 2024), and 2) COMMUNITY 

2PRISM     

> 0.0 0.5 1.0
> Training Memorization
> 0.0
> 0.5
> 1.0
> Testing Generalization
> Community
> 0.0 0.5 1.0
> Training Memorization
> 0.0
> 0.5
> 1.0
> Testing Generalization  Counterfactual
> Memorization
> <0.0
> 0.0-0.2
> 0.2-0.4
> 0.4-0.6
> 0.6-0.8
> 0.8-1.0

Figure 2: Memorization maps : PRISM in the left pane and COMMUNITY in the right. The TM score is plotted along the horizontal axis, TG along the vertical axis. The joint histogram is plotted centrally. For each bin, color denotes the CM bin (see legend), and darkness the density of data present. The top and side panels give a KDE estimate of the marginal distributions of the preference pairs, for each CM bin independently. 

(Zhang et al., 2025a). Both datasets include multi-turn conversations between users and chat mod-els, with turn-level user-preference labels provided by the same users. Both datasets provide sub-stantive metadata at the user ( 77 /28 ), conversa-tion ( 10 /0), turn ( 1/0) and response ( 3/0) levels (PRISM /COMMUNITY ).  

> PRISM

consists of 1.40 × 10 3 users in 8.00 × 10 3

conversations across 27 .2 × 10 3 turns. Turn 1 re-ceives on average 3.75 responses from 21 different models, and later turns receive 2 responses from the same model. The balanced, English-only sub-set of COMMUNITY consists of 0.77 × 10 3 users in 17 .8 × 10 3 conversations across 45 .8 × 10 3

turns. Each turn receives 4 responses from the same model. In total, PRISM has 57 .9 × 10 3 prefer-ence pairs, and COMMUNITY has 137 × 10 3. We provide more detail in Appendix A. 

Reward Modelling An RM, symbolically denoted as rm (y|x), is an approximation of the unobserv-able human preference function r(y|x). It outputs a scalar ‘reward’ for any (x, y ) pair. Discrimina-tive RMs are trained to maximize the likelihood under some probabilistic model, most often the Bradley-Terry model (Bradley and Terry, 1952): 

p(y+ ≻ y−) = σ(rm (y+|x) − rm (y−|x)) (1) We train RMs by finetuning the same back-bone ( Llama-3.2-1B (Llama3Team, 2024), see Appendix C) using a standard LM → SFT → RM pipeline (Ziegler et al., 2019; Wang et al., 2024a) common to training discriminative reward models (Zhong et al., 2025). We use LoRA (Hu et al., 2021) to enable RM training within our budget. The full training methodology, along with a discus-sion on the interaction of PEFT with memorization, is provided in Appendix D. 

Memorization Metrics Following Zhang et al. (2023) and Dankers et al. (2023), we use an op-erationalization of counterfactual memorization 

( CM ) as our measure of preference pair-level mem-orization. Specifically, we compute CM by taking the difference in the expected probability of correct classification when a preference pair is in the train-ing data (which captures training memorization, 

TM ) and when it is not (which captures testing generalization, TG ): 

CM = E[p(y+ ≻ y−)|y+, y − ∈ D (train) ]

| {z }

> TM

− E[p(y+ ≻ y−)|y+, y −̸ ∈ D (train) ]

| {z }

> TG

(2) To estimate the TM and TG expectations, we train the same RM on 25 randomly sampled subsets of the same data. Each preference pair is present in only 20 of these subsets ( TM ), and is held-out oth-erwise ( TG ). To avoid user preference leakage, we perform this splitting at the user-level. We detail the full splitting procedure, including mitigating user-user confounding, in Appendix B. A concep-tual overview of counterfactual memorization can be found in Figure 1. 

Memorization Maps We present the generated counterfactual memorization metrics in Figure 2. For each preference pair, we treat its mean TM 

3(horizontal) and TG (vertical) scores as a coordi-nate. Unsurprisingly, the vast majority of prefer-ence pairs are more often correctly classified after being included in the training data, and thus fall below the solid diagonal line. The dashed perpen-dicular line shows the direction of increasing CM ,which is maximal in the bottom right corner (coor-dinate (1 , 0) ). After training, most of the preference pairs have already been memorized, resulting in most pref-erence pairs falling on the right hand side of the map. Furthermore, most preference pairs have high 

TG scores, and preference pairs with high CM are rare, resulting in a dense cluster of preference pairs near coordinate (1 , 1) . The few negative CM pref-erence pairs also tend to be near this point, which we attribute to noise. 

4 Hypothesis-Driven Determinants 

With these dataset maps, we wish to study the deter-minants of TM , TG or CM . What salient response properties make it easy to generalize to a response pair, and what properties require memorization? 

4.1 Feature Annotation 

We construct a set of features measuring various illocutionary speech acts within the context of user-LLM conversations, which we believe to be im-portant correlates with either human or RM prefer-ence. In total, we provide 84 features per response, divided into the following blocks: anthropomor-phism (1), measuring to which extent the LLM considers itself ‘human’; complexity (9), measur-ing the length, diversity, and complexity of a re-sponse; dialog acts (23 ), indicating whether a spe-cific dialog act is present; emotion (28 ), indicat-ing dominant emotions and sentiment; politeness 

(4), measuring how (im)polite a certain response is; rule-based rewards (16 ), indicating whether particular LLM behaviors are present; and, syco-phancy (3), indicating to what extent the LLM support user framing. We use a combination of task-specific and general-purpose LLMs for au-tomated annotation. We additionally supplement these features with the metadata provided by the dataset authors. More detail can be found in (see Appendix E). When organized into preference pairs, each fea-ture represents a difference in that feature value between the chosen and rejected response. By con-vention, the more positive the difference, the more prevalent said feature is in the chosen response relative to rejected. 

4.2 Regression 

We treat each CM component as an endogenous variable and regress against the feature differences. Specifically, we train a small 3 layer MLP regres-sion model with the collected feature set as input and one of the endogenous variables as target out-put. The regressor is evaluated on a held-out evalu-ation set consisting of 20 % of all preference pairs. To assess the importance of each feature to the per-formance of an RM, i.e., feature attribution, we use SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) (Lundberg and Lee, 2017) to estimate conditional Shapley val-ues for each exogenous feature. We reserve 1 × 10 3

preference pairs for perturbation and evaluate with all remaining samples. 

4.3 SHAP Summary Metrics 

After the regression, we are left with an N × D

matrix of SHAP values, which indicate to what ex-tent a feature d ∈ D contributed to the regression model’s output of row n ∈ N . These are local ex-planations of model performance. To convert these to global, dataset-level explanations, we introduce several summary metrics. We describe these in de-tail in Appendix F. For the purposes of this section, we primarily focus on 2 summary metrics at the feature block level: 1. Mean Absolute Value : the average magnitude of the block net SHAP value 2. Harmonic Mean Rank : the harmonic average of the block net SHAP value rank across a row (i.e., the inverse of the Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR)) MAV captures feature importance absolutely (higher being more important), whereas HMR cap-tures this relatively to other active features for the same response pair (lower being more important). We graphically depict these Figure 3, based on Tables 4 & 5 in Appendix F. Summary statistics at the feature-level are provided in Appendix H Tables 8 and 9. Overall, the regression models predict RM per-formance reasonably well, achieving R2 scores of 0.56 /0.63 , 0.52 /0.38 and 0.39 /0.33 when re-gressing on TM , TG , and CM , respectively (PRISM /COMMUNITY )2. This indicates that RM 

> 2Features which are equally important to training memo-rization and testing generalization have no explanatory power

40.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0         

> PRISM
> AnthroScore
> Politeness
> Sycophancy
> Conversation
> User
> Dialog Acts
> Emotions
> Rule-based Rewards
> Complexity
> User Margin
> Model
> MAV ( )
> 246810
> HMR ( )
> Train Test Counterfactual

(a) PRISM 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0          

> MANV ( )
> 246810
> AnthroScore
> Sycophancy
> Rule-based Rewards
> Politeness
> Dialog Acts
> Complexity
> Emotions
> User
> User Margin
> HMR ( )
> Train Test Counterfactual

(b) COMMUNITY 

Figure 3: Block-level feature importance: block-level net SHAP values, summarized by Mean Absolute Value (MAV) and Harmonic Mean Rank (HMR). Arrows point in direction of greater partial effect of the feature block on RM performance. The effect on TM , TG and CM are denoted by a red circle, a blue square, and a green triangle, respectively. The more extreme a value, the more important that block as a whole is to RM performance. We order features by the MAV for CM .

performance is largely, and in some cases mostly, explained by a relatively small set of features. Large differences in SHAP values for the same feature when used for different endogenous vari-ables indicate that that feature has differentiation in its use for memorization or generalization. Specif-ically, large positive CM features indicate memo-rization , with it only being predictive of RM behav-ior after being seen during training, whereas large negative CM features indicate overgeneralization ,with it being less predictive of RM behavior when used during training. 

User Preference Margin Features belonging to this block are highly dominant predictors of TM 

in both datasets, but substantially worse predictors of TG , resulting in high CM . Looking at SHAP correlation metrics in Appendix H, the relationship between between TM and preference margin is highly positive; the greater the margin, the better model performance is when the preference pair is included in the training data. For PRISM , this is not altogether surprising, as the margin was included in the RM training ob-jective (Appendix D). However, this effect is also visible in COMMUNITY , where a user preference margin is implicit and granular. In both datasets, the effect on TG is significantly smaller. Thus, the model learns to recognize easy examples in its training data and maximizes the RM margin on these examples, but it cannot recognize these cases when held out. This seems like a misallocation of memorization capacity (see Section 6). 

Model Identity For PRISM , the strongest determi-

on counterfactual memorization, which explains the reduced 

R2-score. 1.5    

> 1.0
> 0.5
> 0.0
> 0.5
> 1.0
> 1.5
> SHAP
> Train
> RM Model Preference
> Test Counterfactual
> Chosen Rejected Not Turn 1

Figure 4: Model identity partial effect : mean SHAP value induced whenever a particular model is chosen (orange), rejected (tan) or is used for both chosen and rejected responses (black). Each pane gives the SHAP value for a different endogenous variable. Models are sorted by average RM score, with left-most being the ‘worst’ performing model and right-most the ‘best’. 

nant is model identity. We plot the SHAP values whenever a model is chosen or rejected in Figure 4, sorted by model-wise average RM score. The RMs have a strong preference for particular models—a preference that is positively correlated with human preference; see Appendix F Figure 12—and high 

TG SHAP values indicate that they strongly rely on idiosyncratic differences in the LLMs’ genera-tions. When preference pairs are seen during train-ing, performance degradation is moderate when-ever a ‘better’ model is rejected (or vice versa); however, when unseen, this degradation is substan-tial, especially for the least preferred models. This results in high CM . When model differences are not present (the same model is used for all candi-date responses), especially training performance decreases substantially. 52.56       

> 5.32
> 5.35
> 31.14
> 5.34
> 17.74
> 43.55
> 30.29
> 50.81
> 41.80
> 23.82
> 57.17
> 43.72
> 25.14
> 7.27
> 13.71
> 5.08
> 2.27
> HMR
> 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0
> [SHAP]
> Third Person
> Disclaimer
> Framing
> Non-Compliance
> Meta Commentary
> Judgement
> Safety Policy
> Definitive Verbiage
> Professional Help
> Encourage Help
> Indirectness
> Ack. Emo. State
> Hedging
> Prescribes Solutions
> Provides Resources
> Validation
> Full Compliance
> Partial Compliance
> Train Test Counterfactual

(a) PRISM 4.18        

> 11.72
> 14.41
> 19.25
> 15.74
> 12.22
> 11.29
> 19.95
> 20.21
> 10.75
> 19.79
> 21.35
> 5.07
> 8.69
> 5.70
> 10.52
> 8.87
> 1.69
> HMR
> 1.0 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0
> [SHAP]
> Judgement
> Framing
> Disclaimer
> Indirectness
> Hedging
> Meta Commentary
> Encourage Help
> Prescribes Solutions
> Validation
> Ack. Emo. State
> Third Person
> Professional Help
> Provides Resources
> Definitive Verbiage
> Non-Compliance
> Full Compliance
> Partial Compliance
> Safety Policy
> Train Test Counterfactual

(b) COMMUNITY 

Figure 5: Rule-based rewards & sycophancy partial effect : the change in expected SHAP when there is a rule-based rewards or sycophancy feature difference across preference pairs: E[SHAP i,j |feat j (y+ 

> i

) = 1 , feat j (y− 

> i

) = 0] − E[SHAP i,j |feat j (y+ 

> i

) = 0 , feat j (y− 

> i

) = 1] . We interpret this as the effect of flipping a feature’s presence in the chosen and rejected responses. The secondary axis provides the HMR whenever a feature difference is present (either positive or negative). 

Altogether, this suggests that the RMs learn to associate idiosyncratic response models’ output with user preference, and memorizes cases where this preference is violated. 

User Whereas user-level features are only mod-estly predictive in PRISM , it is the block with the 2nd highest CM MAV in COMMUNITY . This is predominantly due to a large reduction in RM per-formance on unseen preference pairs produced by users from the ‘(At most) Complete Secondary’ ed-ucation group. While recent work does suggest that users from different socio-economic backgrounds interact differently with LLMs (Bassignana et al., 2025), we do not find a difference between this group and other users in either English proficiency, or the distribution of discussed topics. Rather, the most significant difference seems to be in how these users were collected by Zhang et al., with users from this group coming almost entirely from a sec-ond recruitment wave (see Appendix F Table 6) specifically designed to increase the proportion of less educated individuals. The high CM produced by preference pairs from these individuals indi-cate that the RMs are memorizing this user trait specifically, mediated through their prompts and preferences. 

Rule-Based Rewards & Sycophancy In Figure 5 we graphically present differences in mean SHAP values for rule-based reward and sycophancy fea-tures when the feature is only present in the chosen response and only present in the rejected response, i.e., the effect of switching the chosen and rejected responses, all else held equal. For both datasets, partial or full compliance results in the largest gains in expected SHAP, for both TM and TG , indicating that the pres-ence of this feature difference makes assigning a reward substantially easier. Conversely, the presence of refusal (‘non-compliance’) results in substantially worse performance. Addition-ally, at least in PRISM 3, other variables indica-tive of non-compliance (e.g., ‘Disclaimer’, ‘Meta-Commentary’), result in large gains in CM . This indicates that the RMs naturally generalize to com-plying responses but must memorize refusals. The sycophancy variables collectively contribute minimally to either training or testing performance. However, ‘Framing’—unquestioningly adopting a user frame—is individually associated with high 

CM in both datasets due to a marked reduction in test-time performance when present in only the chosen response. 

Heuristics The majority of our annotations result in larger MAV scores for TG than TM , increasing 

CM . This implies that the RM depends on these features for unseen preference pairs, but attenuates their impact for seen preference pairs, i.e. overgen-eralization. Especially indicative of this behavior is the well-researched overreliance on differences in length, with a more verbose or complex response being more preferred by RMs, even in cases where this would be inappropriate. As a result, whenever the 

> 3

In COMMUNITY , differences between responses are ex-ceedingly rare, making it difficult to estimate reliable SHAP values. 

61 2 3 4   

> Region
> prism
> does not directly answer the prompt
> states a definite stance on sensitive issues
> does not claim personal preferences or experien...
> gives detailed factual background on conflict
> gives brief, non-elaborated responses
> provides real-time weather forecasts/details
> avoids specific, detailed meal recommendations
> does not use AI-disclaimer neutrality hedging
> avoids giving political opinions or analysis
> is written in English
> gives only a one-word affirmation
> provides detailed recipe ingredients and steps
> uses structured, formatted documents or lists
> does not include a sample template
> does not emphasize mindfulness or holistic self...
> prioritizes balance, adaptability, and self-care
> uses a formal, elevated tone
> uses structured bullet-point lists/templates
> focuses on policies, safeguards, and official p...
> does not emphasize luxury or exclusivity
> uses structured outline/list format
> uses descriptive long-form prose instead of lists
> narrative paragraph format without bullet lists
> written as narrative paragraphs, not a list
> 1234
> Region
> community

Figure 6: SAE features for different CM regions : the feature descriptions of the conditional SAE latent space with the highest association weights with different regions in the counterfactual memorization map. These regions correspond to low/low (purple); medium/medium (blue); high/low (green); high/high (red) TM / TG , respectively. The darker the color, the greater the association between the SAE feature and that region. 

chosen response is more complex than the rejected response, this nets large negative CM SHAP values, but when the chosen response is less complex, the opposite occurs (see Appendix H Figure 13. In other words, the RMs naturally generalize to cases where the difference in the response pair aligns with the learned heuristic but must memorize cases where the learned heuristic is violated. 

5 Data-Driven Determinants 

To generate a set of data-driven features, we reim-plement the reward model Sparse Autoencoders (SAE) of Movva et al. (2025). An SAE learns a set of spare latent variables that optimally recon-struct its input, and are often used in interpretability research (Shu et al.). We first divide the memorization map into 4

disjoint regions (see Figure 1) before training a Matryoshka Batch Top-k (Bussmann et al., 2024, 2025) SAE on the difference of the embeddings of the responses in a preference pair ( f (x, y +) −

f (x, y −), where f is the LLM). We allow for a maximum of 32 latent variables, of which an av-erage of 4 are active for each sample. We use the same LM used to initialize the RMs to embed the responses. The SAE is then trained to minimize the L2 reconstruction loss, along with an auxilliary 

CM region classification loss on the sparse latents. We interpret the weights of the region classifier (essentially a logistic regression) as associations between a region and a feature. Following Movva et al., we generate a textual description of each latent variable by feeding high scoring preference pairs to OpenAI gpt-5 . These are then validated by annotating a subset of the data using OpenAI gpt-5-mini and checking the correlation against the SAE’s active latent feature. We only retain the feature descriptions that maxi-mally correlate with the active latent dimensions and which are significant at the 0.05 confidence level after Bonferroni correction. The full list of discovered features can be found in Appendix G Table 7. We graphically display the features with the highest association weights in Figure 6. For PRISM there is clear differentiation in the discovered features between regions. The high 

TM and high TG region contains long, neutral responses that comply maximally with the user prompt. Contrasting this is the maximum CM re-gion, with low test generalization but medium to high train memorization, which is characterized by chosen responses that are brief, sometimes con-taining a single word, thereby violating the length difference heuristic function. The region with both medium train- and test-time performance contains references to non-neutral responses to controver-sial, politically charged topics. These are specif-ically cases where multiple responses might be preferred, depending on the stance of the user. In COMMUNITY , it is substantially more difficult to find feature differentiation, likely because all responses come from the same model, and differ-ences are therefore more subtle. Formatting is a recurring feature across regions, but references are especially prevalent in the low TM and low TG 

region. Another recurring theme appears to be the response topic, which is especially discriminative 7between the middle two regions and the other two regions. Overall, these results tentatively suggest that con-ventional, heuristic aligned preference pairs occur in the high/high region, whereas heuristic violating ones fall in the high/low region (i.e., inducing high 

CM ), and cases where there is a low-entropy re-sponse distribution (i.e., user-user preference con-flict) correspond to the medium/medium region ( TM / TG ). 

6 Discussion 

For deep learning models, memorization does not necessarily imply poor generalization. In some cases, memorization can help generalization (Anag-nostidis et al., 2022; Bayat et al., 2024), and in other cases (e.g., long-tail knowledge (Feldman, 2020)) it is even necessary. However, our results indicate that this is not happening; discriminative training of RMs on these datasets results in models that memorize dataset-specific non-causal corre-lates of human preference. We specifically identify 

3 patterns in RM memorization: 1. Misallocated memorization : an ideal RM should supplement learned general rules with memorization of low-margin, difficult prefer-ence pairs. These include responses with subtle differences or on controversial topics. Instead, we see the opposite, with RMs quite explic-itly memorizing high margin preference pairs, where it is safe to minimize training loss by maximizing the RM score margin without mean-ingfully increasing test-time performance. 2. Memorization of dataset artifacts : besides user-preference margin, the features that most clearly impact memorization deal with how the dataset was constructed: response model iden-tity in PRISM and user collection wave in COM -

> MUNITY

. These features provide little informa-tion about human preference at large and will result in RMs that struggle to generalize outside their training data. 3. Overgeneralizing heuristic differences : differ-ences in simple to detect features that are corre-lates of human preference, like response length or compliance, are overgeneralized by the RMs. To effectively lower the training loss, violations of these heuristic differences are memorized, but for unseen response pairs further outside the training distribution, the default behavior re-verts to rewarding these superficial differences, thereby enabling reward hacking. For memorization in RMs to complement gen-eralization, these patterns will need to be ad-dressed. This is especially important when con-sistent, context-dependent judgments are necessary in settings far outside the RMs training distribution. 

7 Conclusion 

This paper studies what features RMs memo-rize during discriminative training on human-preference data. Our findings suggest 3 memo-rization patterns obstructing stronger, more robust RMs. These have direct implications for the design and evaluation of models of human preference. The prioritization of memorization of high mar-gin preference pairs likely negatively impacts model robustness and might explain the recently re-ported effectiveness of curriculum learning in RM and RLHF (Pattnaik et al., 2024; Lin et al., 2026; Liu et al., 2026). Analyzing the role of the Bradley-Terry objective on misallocated RM memorization should be a priority for the research community. Designing RM objectives that explicitly encourage complimentary memorization (i.e., of low margin preference pairs) may substantially boost perfor-mance in context-dependent cases. Memorized dataset-specific shortcut features can inflate RM evaluation metrics and should be con-trolled for in the design of evaluation benchmarks. These should include data far removed from the RM training distribution, for example, by holding out particular user groups or response models. This was recently evidenced by RewardBench 2 (Malik et al., 2025), reporting a marked decrease in RM performance when filtering out prompts similar to those found in finetuning corpora. Mitigating the overgeneralization of simple heuristics in RMs remains an open problem de-spite abundant attention. An especially promising direction is the inclusion of causally informed train-ing, for example, by encouraging dependence on causally relevant features (Mu et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024b), or mitigating dependence on spuri-ous correlates (Zhou et al., 2024; Ye et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025; Song et al., 2026), inter alia .

8 Limitations 

A key weakness of counterfactual memorization, as we have operationalized it in this paper, is the 8computational expense required in computing the separate training memorization and testing gener-alization terms. As a result, tradeoffs are required. First and foremost, we do not compute CM at the preference pair-level but at the user-level. This re-duces the total number of held-out permutation sets and simultaneously prevents user preference leak-age, but runs the risk of conflating preference pair level differences with differences in users. How-ever, the substantial within-user variance of CM 

estimates dominates inter-user variance, suggesting that this is unlikely. Despite the drastic decrease in the number of held-out permutations, we remain constrained due to the prohibitive cost of finetuning LLMs into RMs. As a result, we are limited to only holding out each preference pair 5 times, result-ing in potentially large variance in our estimates of TG , and by extension CM . This alone might already explain the reduced predictive power of the proxy regression models shown in Section 4. While we consider the results presented in Sec-tions 4 and 5 reliable descriptors of RM perfor-mance, it should be noted that these are not causal estimates of the RMs inner mechanisms. Rather, they represent associations between a set of exoge-nous variables and the variables of interest. Es-tablishing the true causal relation between data properties and RM memorization would require in-tervening on internal model representations using controlled edits. 

9 Ethical Considerations 

We make extensive use of open-source and open-access research artifacts, and, in accordance with the licensing agreements, have done our best to ad-equately cite these and keep usage within the initial intended use case. We similarly intend to make our response-level annotations and memorization met-rics publicly available to encourage further analysis into the memorization dynamics of RMs. 

References 

2025. Leolani/cltl-dialogueclassification. Leolani. 2026. Intel/polite-guard. Intel® Corporation. Lisa Alazraki, Yi-Chern Tan, Jon Ander Campos, Max-imilian Mozes, Marek Rei, and Max Bartolo. 2025. Reverse Engineering Human Preferences with Re-inforcement Learning. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Sys-tems .Sotiris Anagnostidis, Gregor Bachmann, Lorenzo Noci, and Thomas Hofmann. 2022. The Curious Case of Benign Memorization. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations .Amanda Askell, Yuntao Bai, Anna Chen, Dawn Drain, Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, Andy Jones, Nicholas Joseph, Ben Mann, Nova DasSarma, Nelson El-hage, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Danny Hernandez, Jack-son Kernion, Kamal Ndousse, Catherine Olsson, Dario Amodei, Tom Brown, Jack Clark, and 3 others. 2021. A general language assistant as a laboratory for alignment. Preprint , arXiv:2112.00861. Elisa Bassignana, Amanda Cercas Curry, and Dirk Hovy. 2025. The AI Gap: How Socioeconomic Status Af-fects Language Technology Interactions. In Proceed-ings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Pa-pers) , pages 18647–18664, Vienna, Austria. Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics. Reza Bayat, Mohammad Pezeshki, Elvis Dohmatob, David Lopez-Paz, and Pascal Vincent. 2024. The Pitfalls of Memorization: When Memorization Hurts Generalization. In The Thirteenth International Con-ference on Learning Representations .Anirudh Bharadwaj, Chaitanya Malaviya, Nitish Joshi, and Mark Yatskar. 2025. Flattery, fluff, and fog: Diagnosing and mitigating idiosyncratic biases in preference models. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations .Thierry Bossy, Julien Tuan Tu Vignoud, Tahseen Rab-bani, Juan R. Troncoso Pastoriza, and Martin Jaggi. 2025. Mitigating Unintended Memorization with LoRA in Federated Learning for LLMs. In ICML 2025 Workshop on Collaborative and Federated Agentic Workflows .Ralph Allan Bradley and Milton E. Terry. 1952. Rank Analysis of Incomplete Block Designs: I. The Method of Paired Comparisons. Biometrika ,39(3/4):324. Bart Bussmann, Patrick Leask, and Neel Nanda. 2024. BatchTopK Sparse Autoencoders. Preprint ,arXiv:2412.06410. Bart Bussmann, Noa Nabeshima, Adam Karvonen, and Neel Nanda. 2025. Learning Multi-Level Features with Matryoshka Sparse Autoencoders. Preprint ,arXiv:2503.17547. Maarten Buyl, Hadi Khalaf, Claudio Mayrink Verdun, Lucas Monteiro Paes, Caio Cesar Vieira Machado, and Flavio Du Pin Calmon. 2025. AI Alignment at Your Discretion. In Proceedings of the 2025 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Trans-parency , pages 3046–3074, Athens Greece. ACM. Yapei Chang, Yekyung Kim, Michael Krumdick, Amir Zadeh, Chuan Li, Chris Tanner, and Mohit Iyyer. 2025. BLEUBERI: BLEU is a surprisingly effective reward for instruction following. In The Thirty-ninth 

9Annual Conference on Neural Information Process-ing Systems .Myra Cheng, Kristina Gligoric, Tiziano Piccardi, and Dan Jurafsky. 2024. AnthroScore: A Computational Linguistic Measure of Anthropomorphism. In Pro-ceedings of the 18th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 807–825, St. Julian’s, Malta. Association for Computational Linguistics. Myra Cheng, Sunny Yu, Cinoo Lee, Pranav Khadpe, Lu-jain Ibrahim, and Dan Jurafsky. 2025. ELEPHANT: Measuring and understanding social sycophancy in LLMs. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations .Verna Dankers, Ivan Titov, and Dieuwke Hupkes. 2023. Memorisation Cartography: Mapping out the Memorisation-Generalisation Continuum in Neural Machine Translation. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing , pages 8323–8343, Singapore. As-sociation for Computational Linguistics. Dorottya Demszky, Dana Movshovitz-Attias, Jeongwoo Ko, Alan Cowen, Gaurav Nemade, and Sujith Ravi. 2020. GoEmotions: A dataset of fine-grained emo-tions. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 4040–4054, Online. Association for Computational Linguistics. Jacob Eisenstein, Chirag Nagpal, Alekh Agarwal, Ah-mad Beirami, Alex D’Amour, D. J. Dvijotham, Adam Fisch, Katherine Heller, Stephen Pfohl, Deepak Ra-machandran, Peter Shaw, and Jonathan Berant. 2024. Helping or Herding? Reward Model Ensembles Miti-gate but do not Eliminate Reward Hacking. Preprint ,arXiv:2312.09244. Vitaly Feldman. 2020. Does learning require memoriza-tion? a short tale about a long tail. In Proceedings of the 52nd Annual ACM SIGACT Symposium on The-ory of Computing , pages 954–959, Chicago IL USA. ACM. Leo Gao, John Schulman, and Jacob Hilton. 2023. Scal-ing laws for reward model overoptimization. In Pro-ceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning , volume 202 of ICML’23 , pages 10835–10866, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. JMLR.org. Sebastian Gehrmann. 2025. Reward models are metrics in a trench coat. Preprint , arXiv:2510.03231. Bishwamittra Ghosh, Soumi Das, Qinyuan Wu, Mo-hammad Aflah Khan, Krishna P. Gummadi, Evimaria Terzi, and Deepak Garg. 2025. Rethinking Mem-orization Measures and their Implications in Large Language Models. arXiv preprint .Valentin Hartmann, Anshuman Suri, Vincent Bind-schaedler, David Evans, Shruti Tople, and Robert West. 2023. SoK: Memorization in General-Purpose Large Language Models. Preprint ,arXiv:2310.18362. Sanghyun Hong, Nicholas Carlini, and Alexey Ku-rakin. 2025. Evaluating memorization in parameter-efficient fine-tuning. In The Impact of Memoriza-tion on Trustworthy Foundation Models: ICML 2025 Workshop .Jie Hou, Chuxiong Wu, Lannan Luo, and Qiang Zeng. 2025. Impact of Fine-Tuning Methods on Mem-orization in Large Language Models. Preprint ,arXiv:2507.00258. Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. 2021. LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations .Zeyu Huang, Zihan Qiu, Zili Wang, Edoardo Ponti, and Ivan Titov. 2024. Post-hoc Reward Calibration: A Case Study on Length Bias. In The Thirteenth Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations .Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2015. Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization. In International Conference for Learning Representations , San Diego, California. Hannah Rose Kirk, Alexander Whitefield, Paul Röttger, Andrew Bean, Katerina Margatina, Juan Ciro, Rafael Mosquera, Max Bartolo, Adina Williams, He He, Bertie Vidgen, and Scott A. Hale. 2024. The PRISM Alignment Dataset: What Participatory, Representative and Individualised Human Feedback Reveals About the Subjective and Multicultural Alignment of Large Language Models. Preprint ,arXiv:2404.16019. Seohyeong Lee, Eunwon Kim, Hwaran Lee, and Buru Chang. 2025. Dataset Cartography for Large Lan-guage Model Alignment: Mapping and Diagnosing Preference Data. Preprint , arXiv:2505.23114. Junlong Li, Fan Zhou, Shichao Sun, Yikai Zhang, Hai Zhao, and Pengfei Liu. 2024. Dissecting human and LLM preferences. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 1790–1811, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics. Jiaye Lin, Mengdi Li, Xufeng Zhao, Wenhao Lu, Peilin Zhao, Stefan Wermter, and Di Wang. 2026. Curriculum-RLAIF: Curriculum Alignment with Re-inforcement Learning from AI Feedback. Preprint ,arXiv:2505.20075. Tianqi Liu, Wei Xiong, Jie Ren, Lichang Chen, Junru Wu, Rishabh Joshi, Yang Gao, Jiaming Shen, Zhen Qin, Tianhe Yu, Daniel Sohn, Anastasia Makarova, Jeremiah Zhe Liu, Yuan Liu, Bilal Piot, Abe Itty-cheriah, Aviral Kumar, and Mohammad Saleh. 2024. RRM: Robust reward model training mitigates reward 

10 hacking. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations .Wenxuan Liu, Liangyu Huo, Yi Jing, Xiyuan Zhang, and Jian Xie. 2026. MRACL: Multi-Reward Space Guided Adaptive Curriculum Reinforcement Learn-ing for LLMs. In Proceedings of the AAAI Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 40, pages 37663–37672. Llama3Team. 2024. The Llama 3 Herd of Models. 

Preprint , arXiv:2407.21783. Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. 2019. Decoupled Weight Decay Regularization. In International Con-ference on Learning Representations .Scott M Lundberg and Su-In Lee. 2017. A Unified Approach to Interpreting Model Predictions. In Ad-vances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,volume 30. Curran Associates, Inc. Ang Lv, Ruobing Xie, Xingwu Sun, Zhanhui Kang, and Rui Yan. 2025. The climb carves wisdom deeper than the summit: On the noisy rewards in learning to reason. Preprint , arXiv:2505.22653. Saumya Malik, Valentina Pyatkin, Sander Land, Jacob Morrison, Noah A. Smith, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Nathan Lambert. 2025. RewardBench 2: Advancing Reward Model Evaluation. In The Fourteenth Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations .Sourab Mangrulkar, Sylvain Gugger, Lysandre De-but, Younes Belkada, Sayak Paul, Benjamin Bossan, and Marian Tietz. 2022. PEFT: State-of-the-art Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning methods. Fatemehsadat Mireshghallah, Archit Uniyal, Tianhao Wang, David Evans, and Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick. 2022. An Empirical Analysis of Memorization in Fine-tuned Autoregressive Language Models. In Pro-ceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing , pages 1816– 1826, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics. Rajiv Movva, Smitha Milli, Sewon Min, and Emma Pierson. 2025. What’s In My Human Feedback? Learning Interpretable Descriptions of Preference Data. In The Fourteenth International Conference on Learning Representations .Tong Mu, Alec Helyar, Johannes Heidecke, Joshua Achiam, Andrea Vallone, Ian Kivlichan, Molly Lin, Alex Beutel, John Schulman, and Lilian Weng. 2024. Rule based rewards for language model safety. In 

Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 37 of NIPS ’24 , pages 108877–108901, Red Hook, NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc. OpenAI. 2024. Introducing ChatGPT. https://openai.com/index/chatgpt/. Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, John Schulman, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton, Luke Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell, Peter Welinder, Paul F. Christiano, Jan Leike, and Ryan Lowe. 2022. Training language models to follow instructions with human feedback. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 35:27730–27744. Fabian Paischer, Lukas Hauzenberger, Thomas Schmied, Benedikt Alkin, Marc Peter Deisenroth, and Sepp Hochreiter. 2025. Parameter efficient fine-tuning via explained variance adaptation. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems .Pulkit Pattnaik, Rishabh Maheshwary, Kelechi Ogueji, Vikas Yadav, and Sathwik Tejaswi Madhusudhan. 2024. Enhancing Alignment using Curriculum Learn-ing & Ranked Preferences. In Findings of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024 ,pages 12891–12907, Miami, Florida, USA. Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics. Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Stefano Ermon, Christopher D. Manning, and Chelsea Finn. 2023. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Neural Infor-mation Processing Systems , NIPS ’23, pages 53728– 53741, Red Hook, NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc. Manon Revel, Matteo Cargnelutti, Tyna Eloundou, and Greg Leppert. 2025. SEAL: Systematic error anal-ysis for value alignment. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Ninth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-gence and Thirty-Seventh Conference on Innovative Applications of Artificial Intelligence and Fifteenth Symposium on Educational Advances in Artificial In-telligence , volume 39 of AAAI’25/IAAI’25/EAAI’25 ,pages 27599–27607. AAAI Press. Keita Saito, Akifumi Wachi, Koki Wataoka, and Youhei Akimoto. 2023. Verbosity Bias in Preference Label-ing by Large Language Models. In NeurIPS 2023 Workshop on Instruction Tuning and Instruction Fol-lowing . arXiv. John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. 2017. Proxi-mal Policy Optimization Algorithms. Preprint ,arXiv:1707.06347. Rulin Shao, Shuyue Stella Li, Rui Xin, Scott Geng, Yiping Wang, Sewoong Oh, Simon Shaolei Du, Nathan Lambert, Sewon Min, Ranjay Krishna, Yu-lia Tsvetkov, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Pang Wei Koh, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2025. Spurious Rewards: Re-thinking Training Signals in RLVR. arXiv preprint .Mrinank Sharma, Meg Tong, Tomek Korbak, David Duvenaud, Amanda Askell, Sam Bowman, Esin Dur-mus, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Scott Johnston, Shauna Kravec, Timothy Maxwell, Sam McCandlish, Kamal 

11 Ndousse, Oliver Rausch, Nicholas Schiefer, Da Yan, Miranda Zhang, and Ethan Perez. 2024. Towards Understanding Sycophancy in Language Models. In-ternational Conference on Learning Representations ,2024:110–144. Lingfeng Shen, Sihao Chen, Linfeng Song, Lifeng Jin, Baolin Peng, Haitao Mi, Daniel Khashabi, and Dong Yu. 2023. The trickle-down impact of reward in-consistency on RLHF. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations .Dong Shu, Xuansheng Wu, Haiyan Zhao, Daking Rai, Ziyu Yao, Ninghao Liu, and Mengnan Du. A Survey on Sparse Autoencoders: Interpreting the Internal Mechanisms of Large Language Models. Prasann Singhal, Tanya Goyal, Jiacheng Xu, and Greg Durrett. 2024. A Long Way to Go: Investigating Length Correlations in RLHF. In First Conference on Language Modeling . arXiv. Joar Skalse, Nikolaus Howe, Dmitrii Krasheninnikov, and David Krueger. 2022. Defining and character-izing reward gaming. In Advances in Neural Infor-mation Processing Systems , volume 35, pages 9460– 9471. Curran Associates, Inc. Ruike Song, Zeen Song, Huijie Guo, and Wenwen Qiang. 2026. Causal reward adjustment: Mitigating reward hacking in external reasoning via backdoor correction. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 40(39):33019–33027. Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Al-bert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, Dan Bikel, Lukas Blecher, Cristian Canton Ferrer, Moya Chen, Guillem Cucurull, David Es-iobu, Jude Fernandes, Jeremy Fu, Wenyin Fu, and 49 others. 2023. Llama 2: Open Foundation and Fine-Tuned Chat Models. Preprint , arXiv:2307.09288. Leandro von Werra, Younes Belkada, Lewis Tunstall, Edward Beeching, Tristan Thrush, Nathan Lambert, Shengyi Huang, Kashif Rasul, and Quentin Gal-louédec. 2020. TRL: Transformers reinforcement learning. Atticus Wang, Iván Arcuschin, and Arthur Conmy. 2026a. Automatically finding reward model biases. In Algorithmic Fairness Across Alignment Proce-dures and Agentic Systems .Binghai Wang, Rui Zheng, Lu Chen, Yan Liu, Shihan Dou, Caishuang Huang, Wei Shen, Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, Chenyu Shi, Songyang Gao, Nuo Xu, Yuhao Zhou, Xiaoran Fan, Zhiheng Xi, Jun Zhao, Xiao Wang, Tao Ji, Hang Yan, and 8 others. 2024a. Secrets of RLHF in Large Language Models Part II: Reward Modeling. Preprint , arXiv:2401.06080. Chaoqi Wang, Zhuokai Zhao, Yibo Jiang, Zhaorun Chen, Chen Zhu, Yuxin Chen, Jiayi Liu, Lizhu Zhang, Xiangjun Fan, Hao Ma, and Sinong Wang. 2025. Beyond Reward Hacking: Causal Rewards for Large Language Model Alignment. Preprint ,arXiv:2501.09620. Fei Wang and Baochun Li. 2025. Leaner Train-ing, Lower Leakage: Revisiting Memorization in LLM Fine-Tuning with LoRA. Preprint ,arXiv:2506.20856. Hao Wang, Licheng Pan, Zhichao Chen, Chunyuan Zheng, Zhixuan Chu, Xiaoxi Li, Yuan Lu, Xing-gao Liu, Haoxuan Li, and Zhouchen Lin. 2026b. CausalRM: Causal-Theoretic Reward Modeling for RLHF from Observational User Feedbacks. Preprint ,arXiv:2603.18736. Haoxiang Wang, Wei Xiong, Tengyang Xie, Han Zhao, and Tong Zhang. 2024b. Interpretable Preferences via Multi-Objective Reward Modeling and Mixture-of-Experts. In Findings of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024 , pages 10582– 10592, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Com-putational Linguistics. Keyu Wang, Jin Li, Shu Yang, Zhuoran Zhang, and Di Wang. 2026c. When truth is overridden: Uncov-ering the internal origins of sycophancy in large lan-guage models. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 40(39):33566–33574. Yuhui Xu, Hanze Dong, Lei Wang, Caiming Xiong, and Junnan Li. 2025. Reward models identify consis-tency, not causality. Preprint , arXiv:2502.14619. Wenqian Ye, Guangtao Zheng, and Aidong Zhang. 2025. Rectifying Shortcut Behaviors in Preference-based Reward Learning. Preprint , arXiv:2510.19050. Dian Yu and Zhou Yu. 2021. MIDAS: A Dialog Act An-notation Scheme for Open Domain HumanMachine Spoken Conversations. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume ,pages 1103–1120, Online. Association for Computa-tional Linguistics. Chiyuan Zhang, Daphne Ippolito, Katherine Lee, Matthew Jagielski, Florian Tramer, and Nicholas Car-lini. 2023. Counterfactual memorization in neural language models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , volume 36, pages 39321–39362. Curran Associates, Inc. Lily Hong Zhang, Smitha Milli, Karen Jusko, Jonathan Smith, Brandon Amos, Wassim Bouaziz, Manon Revel, Jack Kussman, Yasha Sheynin, Lisa Titus, Bhaktipriya Radharapu, Jane Yu, Vidya Sarma, Kris Rose, and Maximilian Nickel. 2025a. Cultivating Pluralism In Algorithmic Monoculture: The Commu-nity Alignment Dataset. In The Fourteenth Interna-tional Conference on Learning Representations .Xuanchang Zhang, Wei Xiong, Lichang Chen, Tianyi Zhou, Heng Huang, and Tong Zhang. 2025b. From Lists to Emojis: How Format Bias Affects Model Alignment. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics 

12 (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 26940–26961, Vi-enna, Austria. Association for Computational Lin-guistics. Xiaosen Zheng and Jing Jiang. 2022. An empirical study of memorization in NLP. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 6265–6278, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Compu-tational Linguistics. Jialun Zhong, Wei Shen, Yanzeng Li, Songyang Gao, Hua Lu, Yicheng Chen, Yang Zhang, Wei Zhou, Jin-jie Gu, and Lei Zou. 2025. A Comprehensive Survey of Reward Models: Taxonomy, Applications, Chal-lenges, and Future. Preprint , arXiv:2504.12328. Yuhang Zhou, Paiheng Xu, Xiaoyu Liu, Bang An, Wei Ai, and Furong Huang. 2024. Explore Spurious Cor-relations at the Concept Level in Language Models for Text Classification. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 478–492, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics. Xiao Zhu, Chenmien Tan, Pinzhen Chen, Rico Sennrich, Huiming Wang, Yanlin Zhang, and Hanxu Hu. 2026. CHARM: Calibrating reward models with chatbot arena scores. Preprint , arXiv:2504.10045. Daniel M. Ziegler, Nisan Stiennon, Jeffrey Wu, Tom B. Brown, Alec Radford, Dario Amodei, Paul Chris-tiano, and Geoffrey Irving. 2019. Fine-Tuning Lan-guage Models from Human Preferences. Preprint ,arXiv:1909.08593. 

13 Contents 

A Data 14 B Splits 15 C Model 15 D RM Training 16 E Annotations 17 F Regression Analysis 19 G SAE Analysis 22 H Individual SHAP Value Tables 22 

A Data 

We use two separate, but similarly structured, hu-man preference datasets: the 1) PRISM (Kirk et al., 2024), and 2) COMMUNITY (Zhang et al., 2025a) alignment datasets. Both datasets include user-LLM conversations with preference labels pro-duced by the same user providing the prompts; both provide extensive metadata on said users; and both aim to maximize the socio-cultural diversity in their user pool to incorporate heterogeneous pref-erences. Each user produces many conversations, which typically cover a single topic. In PRISM , users free to discuss any topic but are prompted to provide the type of conversation they intend to have (un-guided/controversy guided/values guided). In COM - 

> MUNITY

the users are usually free to determine the conversation topic, but sometimes ( ≈ 2% ) users are presented with a pre-generated initial prompt. This ensures prompt overlap between users, which is useful for studying pluralistic conflict. Each conversation contains at least one turn of interaction, which consists of a prompt, a set of LLM-generated candidate responses, and a user-generated preference label for each candidate re-sponse. In PRISM , preference is annotated using an ordinal 1 − 100 scale (least preferred to most preferred), whereas in COMMUNITY , users only annotate which of the 4 responses they preferred most. The former allows for estimating a margin of preference, and we can train preference on all com-binations of responses, whereas in the latter case, it is impossible to determine the order of preference between dispreferred responses. The LLM canidate responses come from 1 of 21 

models different models in the first turn of conver-sations in PRISM . The ‘winning’ model is then used to source all candidate responses in later turns. The  

> COMMUNITY

authors take a different approach, us-ing the same Llama-3.3-70B-Instruct to gener-ate all model responses, although sampled in such a manner as to increase diversity in response stances. Besides preference labels, users sometimes pro-vide natural language feedback. In PRISM this oc-curs at the conversation level, whereas in COMMU - 

> NITY

this is at the preference pair-level. We depict the described structure of the datasets in Figure 7. 

A.1 User Metadata and Diversity 

Both datasets were explicitly created for the pur-pose of evaluating and developing cultural sensitiv-ity in large language models under a RLHF frame-work. However, the approaches used to cultivate diversity in user preference and model response differ substantially. With PRISM , Kirk et al. collect prompt-response pairs 1396 from users in 38 separate countries. Each user additionally provides information about their socio-cultural identity (e.g., gender, age, eth-nicity), along with individual preferences (as mea-sured using a 7 item ordinal scale) and their famil-iarity with LLMs. To diversify the LLM responses provided to the users, in turn 1, the user is presented with up to 

4 responses produced by a pool of 21 different models. In later turns, only the highest scoring LLM from turn 1 is used. While this approach ensures diversity in user-level attributes and model identities, PRISM as-sumes that a diverse set of users or LLMs results in a diverse set of user-preferences or LLM responses. However, Zhang et al. show that this is not the case, with high homogeneity at the socio-cultural level between responses, despite seemingly high surface-level variation. With COMMUNITY , Zhang et al. attempt to cor-rect this. They use a similar setup, collecting user-level socio-cultural metadata from 3196 users from 

5 separate countries. We select only users convers-ing in English, which reduces the pool of countries to India and the United States. As a rough estimate for the amount of socio-cultural variation within each dataset, we provide a cross tabulation of the proportion of respondents in each ethnicity-location/country pairing in Tables 14 Community 

...   

> Prompt (user or shared)
> Previous (prompt, response) + new user prompt
> Turn Feedback
> UUserID | Female, 34-45, USA, ...

PRISM 

...   

> User prompt
> Previous (prompt, response) + new user prompt
> Conversation Feedback
> UUserID | Female, 34-45, USA, ...

Figure 7: Dataset structure : Left is PRISM , right is COMMUNITY . Both datasets provide user-level metadata, and have the user interacting with the LLM also rate each response. In PRISM , these responses come from 1 of 21 models in the first turn, and the user rates each response on an ordinal scale, with the LLM providing the best response being used for subsequent turns. In COMMUNITY , the user selects the best response from 1 of 4 response from the same LLM. Sometimes the user is provided with the starting prompt, and sometimes the user leaves turn-level, free text motivations for their choice. 

1 and 2. Note that PRISM has a substantially large pool of locations, and that both datasets have a similar dominant group (White-USA in COMMU -

NITY , and White-USA/UK in PRISM ). Despite the reduced variance in socio-cultural groups in COM -

MUNITY , Zhang et al. claim a much higher degree of socio-cultural variation in LLM responses. 

B Splits 

To estimate CM , we generate 25 unique splits of the data and exclude each sample from 5 random splits. To ensure there is no data leakage of user preferences between the splits, we perform the ex-clusion at the user level. This means all user in-teractions occur in either D(train) or in D(test) , but never both. In an ideal experiment, we would produce 1 split per user. However, due to the prohibitive cost of RM finetuning, and the inherent stochasticity of deep learning with mini-batch gradient descent, we are forced to use significantly fewer splits. A purely uniform assignment of users to hold out test splits will inevitably lead to high user-user co-occurrences across splits. While unavoidable with only 5 hold out splits per user, this does introduce an undesirable correlation into the CM computa-tion. To mitigate this, we initialize an assignment by greedily placing a user in the bucket with users it has seen the least. After this, we search for a bet-ter assignment that minimizes the overall user-user co-occurrences. We repeat this for 2 × 10 3 itera-tions, keeping only the best solution. Overall, this ensures a user co-occurs with other users at most 

3/5 times, where both random assignment and the greedy solution see frequent 4/5 or 5/5 user-user co-occurences. For all other experiments, whenever hold out splits are required, we simply use standard prefer-ence pair splitting. 

C Model 

When estimating CM , we finetune a

Llama-3.2-1B (Llama3Team, 2024) base-line with LoRA (Hu et al., 2021) adapters through the PEFT library (Mangrulkar et al., 2022). Specifi-cally, we apply LoRA to all projection weights in the model, set r = 32 , α = 32 and initialize using EVA (Paischer et al., 2025). This results in a total of 22 .5 × 10 6 parameters, representing just 2 % of all available parameters. The effect of PEFT on memorization has re-ceived some attention in prior works. Overall, the scientific consensus is relatively unanimous; at the same level of performance, a model fine-tuned with PEFT memorizes less of the training data than a full finetune. Specifically, Mireshghallah et al. (2022) find that models finetuned with adapters memorize less of the training data at the same level of valida-tion perplexity. In general, Bossy et al. (2025) find models trained with PEFT memorize substantially less, which Hong et al. (2025) corroborate and par-tially attribute to the PEFT parameters acting as 15 Eth Loc Africa Asia Aus. & NZ Americas Europe PntS Total                                                                           

> East West North Latin North South East West
> Asian 0.13 1.20 0.07 1.40 2.33 1.13 0.07 6.33 Black 4.80 0.13 2.27 0.93 8.13 Hispanic 1.67 6.27 0.07 0.07 8.07 Mixed 0.33 0.20 0.67 1.47 0.60 0.87 0.13 0.27 4.53 Other 1.60 0.33 0.20 0.07 0.33 0.07 2.60 White 0.27 1.73 6.93 20.00 0.80 24.07 3.80 2.87 4.07 0.07 64.60 PntS 0.33 0.47 0.47 1.40 1.13 1.20 0.07 0.07 0.60 5.73 Total 5.87 1.20 4.07 9.93 29.33 8.87 28.60 4.07 2.93 5.07 0.07 100.00

Table 1: Proportion of PRISM respondents who self-report belonging to an Ethnicity-Location pair (columns and rows, respectively). Proportions are provided as percentages.                        

> Eth Cntr India United States Total
> Asian 2.94 2.94 Black 4.33 4.33 Dravidian 14.25 14.25 Hispanic 6.66 6.66 Indo-Aryan 39.10 39.10 Other 2.75 0.44 3.19 White 24.17 24.17 PntS 5.34 5.34 Total 56.11 43.89 100.00

Table 2: Proportion of COMMUNITY respondents who self-report belonging to an Ethnicity-Location pair (columns and rows, respectively). Proportions are pro-vided as percentages. 

an information bottleneck. This is evidenced by Hou et al. (2025), who find that small(er) param-eter updates memorize less across different PEFT techniques. However, Wang and Li (2025) find that PEFT finetuned models do still memorize, just that this is substantially less than full model finetuning. In general, As such, given the weight of prior evidence and the empirical findings in the next section, we (1) believe that our PEFT finetuned models are capable of memorizing the datasets and (2) expect that our findings generalize to fell model reward training setups. 

D RM Training 

We fine-tune the base LLM on 25 different splits of each dataset using TRL (von Werra et al., 2020) (v19.1). We first apply a single epoch of supervised finetuning (SFT) on all chosen responses, condi-tioned on the prompt and conversation history. We apply linear warmup for the first 2 % of steps, be-fore using a constant learning rate. This SFT step ensures the model can use the chat format corectly. This is followed by 3 epochs of Bradley-Terry reward model finetuning. The validation loss and accuracy were optimal after a single epoch of RM training, however we chose 3 epochs for computing the memorization metrics since it: • is 3 times longer than necessary for conver-gence, matching Dankers et al. (2023), who explicitly note training beyond convergence in order to investigate memorisation (p. 8335) • empirically, longer training runs saw substan-tially worse validation scores • more epochs for all splits did not fit within our compute budget Besides a pure Bradley-Terry classification loss, we also include a centering loss as a regularizer on the predicted rewards (Eisenstein et al., 2024). For the models trained on PRISM , where users provide a scalar preference score for each response, we additionally include a margin: 

σ(RM (y+|x) − RM (y+|x) + ( r(y+|x) − r(y−|x)) 

| {z }

> user margin

)

Rather than providing raw user margins, we bin these values using the 25th, 50th, 75th and 100th quantiles of margins, mapping these bins to scores of {0, 1/3, 2/3, 1}, respectively, matching Touvron et al. (2023) (see Appendix A.3.3 Table 27). They observe that “... the margin term can indeed help the reward model perform better on more separable comparison pairs ... [it] also regresses performance on similar samples.” During RM training and CM computation, we remove all samples with token lengths greater than 

1400 . We use the same learning-schedule as SFT, and optimise using AdamW (Kingma and Ba, 2015; Loshchilov and Hutter, 2019). 16 0 1 2 3

> 0.0
> 0.5
> 1.0
> 1.5

Loss    

> 0123
> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 40

Grad Norm Figure 8: Loss and gradient norm curves for all 25 model iterations when training on PRISM . Dotted black lines denote epoch boundaries. 0 1 2 3

> 0.0
> 0.5
> 1.0
> 1.5

Loss    

> 0123
> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 40

Grad Norm 

Figure 9: Loss and gradient norm curves for all 25 model iterations when training on COMMUNITY . Dotted black lines denote epoch boundaries. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 

> 0.0
> 0.5
> 1.0
> 1.5

Loss 

Figure 10: Loss and gradient norm curves for all 25 model iterations when training on PRISM . Dotted black lines denote epoch boundaries. 

We present the training loss and gradient norm curve for PRISM in Figure 8. Overall, the train-ing loss curves were vey consistent between runs, despite seeing different subsets of the same data. We observe a consistent sharp drop in loss after each epoch, with an accompanying sharp increase in average gradient norm for the first 3 epochs of training. This pattern continues for much longer training runs 4 and indicates that the model has suc-cessfully memorized all data samples (see Figure 10). When training RMs on COMMUNITY we use the same methodology, except that we do include a user margin ( COMMUNITY does not provide scalar user preferences for responses). We present the loss and gradient curve for training on COMMUNITY in Figure 9. Overall, the RMs achieve slightly lower accuracy    

> 4Due to the prohibitive cost of these training runs, only 5
> runs were continued for 10 epochs

scores on PRISM (63 ) compared to COMMUNITY 

(69 % ). In both instances, this is slightly lower than the optimal accuracy score achieved after a single epoch of training; PRISM 65 a nd COMMU - 

> NITY

72 % .

E Annotations 

Let xi be a user prompt (potentially with prepended conversational history), and y+ 

> i

, y− 

> i

be the corre-sponding user preferred and dispreferred responses. We annotate each preference pair like this with a set of features using some annotation method: 

feat user  

> j

(xi, y + 

> i

, y − 

> i

)

We selected PRISM and COMMUNITY primarily for the user-level metadata annotations. Specifi-cally, PRISM provides user information about de-mographic factors (e.g., age, gender, ethnicity, lo-cation), socio-economic status (e.g., education, em-ployment, marital status), English & LLM profi-ciency, along with self-reported descriptions and 17 Block Sub-Block Domain Number Description 

Antrhopomorphism R 1Estimates to which degree the response assigns animacy to itself using the AnthroScore framework (Cheng et al., 2024). Specifically, we mask all 1st person pronouns within the response, and then use a masked language model to determine the probability of an animate versus an inanimate pronoun replacement Complexity Length R 3 number of tokens, number of unique lemmas, number of sentences Complexity R 5 average sentence length, average number of syllables per token, number of sentences, number of entities Diversity R 1 type-to-token ratio Dialog Acts R 23 We get logits for MIDAS (Yu and Yu, 2021) dialog acts for the prompt and first sentence of the response using 

CLTL/midas-da-xlmroberta (Leo, 2025) Emotion R 28 We get logits for GOEMOTIONS (Demszky et al., 2020) emotions over the entire response using 

AnasAlokla/multilingual_go_emotions 

Politeness R 4We get logits for politeness levels over the entire response using Intel/polite-guard (Int, 2026). This model was specifically trained on human-LLM interactions Rule-based Rewards {0,1} 16 We annotate responses for possessing one of the identified LLM behaviors in Mu et al. (2024). We use their prompts and annotate automatically using OpenAI/gpt-4.1-nano . For comparisons, this feature is 1 if it is present in chosen but not in the rejected response, −1 if vice versa and 0 otherwise Sycophancy {0,1} 3We annotate responses for possessing one of the identified sycophancy traits in Cheng et al. (2025). We use their prompts and annotate automatically using OpenAI/gpt-4.1-nano .For comparisons, this feature is 1 if it is present in chosen but not in the rejected response, −1 if vice versa and 0 otherwise 

Table 3: Manually annotated features. 

values. COMMUNITY provides a smaller subset of user-level features, focusing on demographics and education, but also provides political stances. This information is constant across preference pairs and might allow us to detect inter-user preference conflict. We represent these as boolean dummy variables, feat user  

> j

(xi, y + 

> i

, y − 

> i

) ∈ { 0, 1}. 

> PRISM

additionally provides annotations at the conversation and response levels. Specifically, each conversation is rated along 10 axes for par-ticular facets of quality, and each response has been annotated automatically for non-English texts, personally identifiable information (PII) and vi-olations of a moderation policy. The former is constant across the preference pair, and is thus represented as a boolean dummy variable, 

feat conv  

> j

(xi, y + 

> i

, y − 

> i

) ∈ { 0, 1}, whereas for the lat-ter we model differences using a ternary integer representation, feat turn  

> j

(xi, y + 

> i

, y − 

> i

) ∈ {− 1, 0, 1}.Here 1 indicates the feature is present in the chosen response but not in the rejected response, −1 indi-cates the opposite, and 0 indicates that the feature is either present in both chosen and rejected, or in neither. Another response-level feature provided in 

> PRISM

, is the user preference score, as measured on a 1 to 100 ordinal scale. We represent the pref-erence pair-level feature, user preference margin, as a continuous variable expressing the difference in preference score: feat turn  

> j

(xi, y + 

> i

, y − 

> i

) ∈ { 1, 99 }.This feature is not present in COMMUNITY , so we estimate a user-preference margin on the preference pairs repeated across different conversations. Amore detailed description is provided in Appendix H. Finally, we complement these features by anno-tating responses using a combination of pretrained standard NLP toolkits, open-source models, LLM APIs. These features and their preference pair-level representation domain can be found in Table 3 18 F Regression Analysis 

As stated earlier, after regressing the set of annota-tions against the various endogenous variables, we are left with a N × D matrix of SHAP values. SHAP values are the unique Shapley values of a conditional expectation function of the regression model. It provides, for each sample and feature, a scalar deviation from the grand regression model mean output: 

ˆyi = ϕ0 +

> D

X

> j=1

ϕij (3) As such, we may interpret a SHAP value as the additive importance of a particular feature to the model output for a specific sample. The greater its magnitude, the greater its impact on the model’s output in a particular direction. Given that we are analysing regression models trained on RM pref-erence pairs, assuming the regression models are reasonable proxies for the RMs themselves, large positive SHAP values indicate large increases to the endogenous variable, whereas large negative SHAP values would indicate the opposite. Thus, a SHAP value is a local explanation of model behavior (i.e., at preference pair-level). We are interested in global explanations (i.e., dataset-level). To convert from the former to the latter, we compute a number of summary statistics: 1. MAV : the arithmetic mean of the absolute value of the Shapley values, across all sam-ples. The greater this value, the more extreme a features impact on average 2. Correlation (r): the Pearson correlation co-efficient between the SHAP values and the exogenous feature. This captures the direc-tion of the relationship between a feature’s value and the expected SHAP value 3. Beta (β): defined as 

β = correlation (ϕj , ˆy) std (ˆ y)

std (ϕj )

this captures the expected increase in Shap-ley values for a 1 unit increase in the exoge-nous variable. This is equivalent to the re-gression coefficient for a simple linear regres-sion model. This metric captures both direc-tion and magnitude; the greater this value, the more sensitive the model is to changes in the feature’s value 4. Harmonic Mean Rank : the harmonic mean of the row-wise rank of the absolute SHAP values 

1

N

> N

X

> i=1

(rank (ϕi)j )−1

!−1

We only compute this metric whenever a fea-ture is active (i.e., there is a difference be-tween responses in a preference pair). Unlike the previous metrics, which capture the impact of a feature absolutely, this metric is relative to all other features active in a preference pair. Thus, in order, we have summary statistics mea-suring the magnitude, the direction, the linear rela-tionship, and the relative magnitude of a feature’s importance. Of these, only the first (MAV) is com-monly used; however, we found this inappropriate for evaluating features that are rarely active. We present SHAP values for individual features in Tables 8 and 9, which are located at the end of this paper for legibility reasons. 

F.1 Block-Level Analysis 

For the purpose of reporting block-level impor-tance, and to account for interference of different variables within the same block, we additionally compute block-level net SHAP values. We com-pute these by summing all SHAP values belonging to the same block, before computing the same sum-mary statistics as before: 

ϕF 

> i

= X

> j∈F

ϕij 

where F is meant to denote a set of features belong-ing to the same block. Beyond the discussed summary statistics, we also measure the ability of a block to predict the en-dogenous variable in isolation using the coefficient of determination ( R2). We present these block-level SHAP values in Tables 4 and 5. 

F.2 Extended Feature-Level Analysis User In Section 4, we find that the RMs are memo-rizing a user metadata variable. Specifically, CM 

is very high for user from the ‘(At most) Complete Secondary’ education level. This is striking, since user metadata is never presented directly to the model. Instead, the model must infer this from the user’s prompt and their response preference. Based 19 Block Name TM TG CM 

MAV ( ↑) HMR ( ↓) R2 ( ↑) MAV ( ↑) HMR ( ↓) R2 ( ↑) MAV ( ↑) HMR ( ↓) R2 ( ↑)

Model 0.47 1.41 0.27 0.44 1.50 0.12 0.45 1.28 0.02 User Margin 0.35 1.64 0.36 0.11 4.75 0.30 0.25 2.12 0.21 Complexity 0.15 3.19 0.00 0.36 1.83 0.00 0.20 2.58 0.01 Rule-based Rewards 0.12 3.77 0.00 0.25 2.52 0.00 0.13 3.63 0.00 Emotions 0.09 4.47 0.00 0.14 3.98 0.00 0.09 4.64 0.00 Dialog Acts 0.08 4.97 0.24 0.13 4.32 0.24 0.07 5.34 0.10 User 0.06 5.51 0.18 0.09 5.31 0.14 0.06 5.70 0.07 Conversation 0.05 6.01 0.22 0.06 6.64 0.22 0.06 5.79 0.09 Sycophancy 0.02 9.00 0.11 0.04 7.67 0.08 0.03 8.22 0.04 Politeness 0.03 7.44 0.00 0.05 7.10 0.00 0.02 8.06 0.00 AnthroScore 0.01 9.79 0.00 0.01 10.20 0.00 0.01 10.36 0.00 PRISM 0.00 11.32 0.00 0.01 10.79 0.00 0.00 10.77 0.00 Total 0.56 0.52 0.39 

Table 4: Summary metrics of block-wise net SHAP values for PRISM .

Block Name TM TG CM 

MAV ( ↑) HMR ( ↓) R2 ( ↑) MAV ( ↑) HMR ( ↓) R2 ( ↑) MAV ( ↑) HMR ( ↓) R2 ( ↑)

User Margin 0.83 1.10 0.47 0.38 2.11 0.13 0.47 1.20 0.24 User 0.28 1.89 0.35 0.50 1.36 0.03 0.19 2.09 0.19 Emotions 0.10 3.69 0.02 0.17 3.06 0.10 0.12 3.15 0.08 Complexity 0.10 3.63 0.00 0.20 2.69 0.01 0.11 3.32 0.00 Dialog Acts 0.07 4.42 0.15 0.13 3.85 0.14 0.08 4.14 0.15 Politeness 0.04 5.31 0.09 0.07 4.91 0.11 0.04 4.98 0.08 Rule-based Rewards 0.03 5.69 0.18 0.07 5.08 0.12 0.04 5.18 0.15 Sycophancy 0.01 7.08 0.02 0.02 7.36 0.03 0.01 7.50 0.02 AnthroScore 0.00 8.56 0.01 0.01 8.02 0.03 0.01 7.69 0.02 Total 0.63 0.39 0.34 

Table 5: Summary metrics of block-wise net SHAP values for COMMUNITY .

20 Wave Educ (At most) Complete Secondary Some post-secondary Post-secondary graduate Some or complete graduate degree Other Total                  

> 10.02 0.06 0.42 0.37 0.00 0.87 20.13 0.01 0.13 Total 0.14 0.07 0.42 0.37 0.00 1.00
> Table 6: A cross tabulation of the proportion of COMMUNITY users belonging to each education level and collection wave.

on analyzing the prompts, we did not find a sub-stantive difference in English proficiency, or the distribution of discussed topics. Instead, we find that the largest difference between these users and all other users in COMMUNITY , is their collection wave. We show this in Table 6. While Zhang et al. do not discuss the specific annotator recruitment process, they do briefly discuss the difficulty in con-structing a representative sample of less educated users (see their Appendix D.3.1). 

Margin PRISM provides a scalar user-reported pref-erence score for each model response, allowing us to express a margin of human preference for each preference pair. Unfortunately, COMMUNITY only provides the index of the chosen response. They do, however, have instances where the same prompt is shown to different users, resulting in expression of contrasting personal preference. Thus, we compute two proxies for margin in user preference: 1) a preference pair-level margin in the probability of a response being selected for the same prompt (‘Prob Margin’), and 2) a turn-level normalized entropy of the prompt-chosen response distribution (‘Turn Entropy’). 

Dataset Metadata The PRISM authors provide ad-ditional conversation- and response-level annota-tions. The latter correspond to cases where re-sponses are non-English, contain Personally Iden-tifiable Information (PII) or violate a safety pol-icy. These cases are rare, resulting in very low block-level MAV scores (Figure 3a), but yield large effects when active. Obvious safety pol-icy violations make preference classification eas-ier during both training and testing, whereas non-English responses see substantially decreased test-time performance without worse train-time perfor-mance, yielding high CM . This suggests RMs have to memorize when users prefer non-English responses. The provided annotations at the conversation-level—type and rating, ‘Conversation’ in Figure 3a—yield small to no difference in memorization or generalization scores. Controversy and val-ues guided conversations tend to generate slightly lower CM than unguided conversations. Individu-ally, the conversation-level user ratings have mini-mal impact, although high ‘helpfulness’ scores tend to decrease CM . As such it is impossible to discern their importance, likely due to the high granularity of the annotations. 

Model Identity We present the mean user score and RM score for all 21 models used in PRISM ,conditioned on the model response being chosen or rejected, in Figure 12. Users have a relatively con-sistent preference, with models whose responses receive high scores when chosen typically also re-ceiving high scores when rejected ( τ =0 .69 % ). This preference is even more consistent in the RM preference ( τ =0 .80 % ), especially most and least preferred models. Comparing users against RMs, we see that their preference is strongly associated with each other ( τ =0 .81 % to 0.85 % ). 

Complexity We graphically depict the effect of increasing length, complexity and diversity on the expected block-level net SHAP values in Figure 13. In general, these have a stronger positive correla-tion with TG than with TM , resulting in negative 

CM when the chosen response is much longer or more complex than the rejected response, and posi-tive CM whenever the opposite occurs. The effect is fairly linear, being much larger at the extremes than near null difference. The major exception to this finding is TTR , a measure of token diversity in the responses, with less diverse chosen responses resulting in better performance. We posit that this is due to noise outliers, where the rejected response contains long but random tokens, resulting in di-verse but meaningless text. 

Emotion We similarly graphically display the ef-fect of emotion (aggregated into sentiment bins) on the expected block-level net SHAP values in Fig-ure 14. Unlike complexity, the trend does not seem 21 to be linear, with human preference classification tending to be easier when extreme emotional differ-ences are present. Overall, however, emotion tends to be modestly predictive of either generalization or memorization in RMs. 

G SAE Analysis 

To generate a set of data-driven CM determinants, we reimplement the SAEs used by Movva et al. (2025). They train these on the difference of response-level embeddings, requiring the SAE to reconstruct the difference embedding. They use OpenAI text-embedding-3-small as the embed-ding model, whereas we use Llama-3.2-1B , the same checkpoint from which we initialize the RMs, ensuring the features are generated from informa-tion which is—in theory—available to the RMs as well. We additionally experiment with several SoTA RMs and general text embedding models, but these did not produce more interpretable features. For the SAE instantiation, we use the exact same Matryoshka Batch Top-k (Bussmann et al., 2024, 2025), with a latent space of 32 and at most 4 active features per sample. To automatically produce an interpretation of the SAE’s latent space, we sam-ple 5 preference pairs from the 95 th percentile or above, and have OpenAI gpt-5 produce a succinct summary of the most salient difference between the responses. We repeat this 5 times for each descrip-tion. Finally, to validate the description, we addi-tionally annotate 300 response pairs for said fea-ture, sampled uniformly across the feature’s latent space embedding, and have OpenAI gpt-5-nano 

annotate these for said feature. We then only keep the description that maximally correlates with the latent space values. Regardless of the specific response embedding model or SAE hyperparameters, we find it difficult to replicate the features reported by Movva et al. (see their Appendix E Tables 10 & 12). We find substantial multi-collinearity between the latent dimensions of the SAE, which translates to near identical feature interpretations. Furthermore, we find that the problem is exacerbated when the SAE is trained on each CM region in isolation. To generate features that are simultaneously in-terpretable and discriminative, we add an auxilliary 

CM region classification head on the sparsified SAE latent space. We find that equally weighting the reconstruction and classification losses works optimally, and minimally reduces the ability of the    

> Figure 11: SAE discriminative regions : we divide the memorization map into 4distinct, similar triangles. The colors and numbers match those used in Figure 6.

SAE to reconstruct the difference embeddings. The regions are displayed in Figure 1, and Figure 11. We present all valid feature descriptions for both datasets in Table 7. We additionally provide the positive ( 1

> N

PNi=1 1( zi,j > c j )) and negative ( 1

> N

PNi=1 1( zi,j < −cj )) prevalence of the feature (where cj is the learned SAE sparsification thresh-old; Pearson’s correlation coefficient between val-idation samples and the latent feature values, and its associated p-value, and; the classifier weights between the SAE feature and each CM region. The greater this weight is, the greater the positive asso-ciation between this feature and a corresponding region. 

H Individual SHAP Value Tables 

We present all SHAP values for individual features in Tables 8 and 9. We omit the model identity val-ues for brevity, but these are displayed graphically in Figure 4. 22 Chosen 

User Score 

Rejected 

User Score 

Chosen 

RM Score 

Rejected 

RM Score 

> command
> chat-bison-001
> claude-instant-1
> zephyr-7b-beta
> Llama-2-7b-chat-hf
> command-nightly
> Llama-2-70b-chat-hf
> command-light
> Llama-2-13b-chat-hf
> gpt-4
> gpt-4-1106-preview
> claude-2
> Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.1
> claude-2.1
> gpt-3.5-turbo
> guanaco-33b-merged
> oasst-sft-4-pythia-12b-epoch-3.5
> falcon-7b-instruct
> luminous-supreme-control
> luminous-extended-control
> flan-t5-xxl

+0.69 +0.80 

+0.81 

+0.85 Figure 12: Correlation between the mean user score of a chosen and rejected response and the mean RM score of a chosen and rejected response. Model names are provided in text along the left-most vertical axis. Models are sorted by their mean ‘Chosen User Score’, with the top being the most preferred and the bottom being the least preferred. Boxes at the bottom provide Kendall’s Tau correlation value. 

23 8 4 0 4 8

> 0.2
> 0.0
> 0.2

Log Num Tokens     

> 16 80816

Num Sents     

> 84048

Log Num Lemmas     

> 50 25 025 50

Avg Sent Len     

> 1.6 0.8 0.0 0.8 1.6
> 0.2
> 0.0
> 0.2

Avg Syllables    

> 0.50 0.25 0.00 0.25 0.50

TTR     

> 30 15 015 30

Num Entities     

> 84048

Avg Num Entities 

> Net SHAP

(a) PRISM 8 4 0 4 8

> 0.2
> 0.0
> 0.2

Log Num Tokens     

> 16 80816

Num Sents     

> 84048

Log Num Lemmas     

> 50 25 025 50

Avg Sent Len     

> 1.6 0.8 0.0 0.8 1.6
> 0.2
> 0.0
> 0.2

Avg Syllables    

> 0.50 0.25 0.00 0.25 0.50

TTR     

> 30 15 015 30

Num Entities     

> 84048

Avg Num Entities 

> Net SHAP

(b) COMMUNITY 

Figure 13: Complexity partial effect : block-level net SHAP values induced by complexity differences between responses. Shapes indicate mean per bin, whereas solid lines give linear trend lines. We trim the data bins between the 0.1st and 99.9th percentiles. 2.5 0.0 2.5 

> 0.04
> 0.02
> 0.00
> 0.02
> 0.04
> Net SHAP

Positive   

> 2.5 0.0 2.5

Negative   

> 2.5 0.0 2.5

Neutral 

(a) PRISM 2.5 0.0 2.5 

> 0.04
> 0.02
> 0.00
> 0.02
> 0.04
> Net SHAP

Positive   

> 2.5 0.0 2.5

Negative   

> 2.5 0.0 2.5

Neutral 

(b) COMMUNITY 

Figure 14: Emotion partial effect : block-level net SHAP values induced by emotion differences between responses. We aggregate SHAP scores based on sentiment categories, as described in Demszky et al. (2020)’s Figure 2. Solid lines now give the quadratic trend line. 

24 Prev. Corr. Weight Description 

+ - r p 0 1 2 3

> PRISM

0% 1% 0.79 6.36e-66 0.03 -0.07 0.17 0.09 gives only a one-word affirmation 2% 0% 0.72 9.90e-50 0.20 -0.31 0.13 -0.16 provides real-time weather forecasts/details 0% 1% 0.72 5.97e-49 0.02 -0.02 -0.10 0.03 responds in a non-English language 1% 6% 0.71 1.21e-46 -0.08 -0.00 -0.06 -0.10 gives terse one-word reply without elaboration 1% 1% 0.62 4.69e-33 0.05 -0.10 0.13 0.03 provides detailed recipe ingredients and steps 0% 0% 0.59 5.00e-29 0.03 0.07 0.12 -0.05 is an empty (blank) response 0% 0% 0.57 3.43e-27 0.05 -0.05 0.08 0.23 is written in English 14% 18% 0.57 4.74e-27 -0.06 0.02 -0.19 0.15 does not self-identify as an AI model 1% 1% 0.52 2.28e-22 0.01 -0.23 -0.09 0.06 only a generic greeting 1% 2% 0.48 1.71e-18 -0.08 -0.17 -0.06 0.22 avoids specific, detailed meal recommendations 0% 100% 0.41 8.34e-14 0.18 -0.07 0.50 -0.46 gives brief, non-elaborated responses 4% 5% 0.41 1.09e-13 -0.07 0.07 -0.18 0.02 includes explicit AI self-identification disclaimers 15% 10% 0.35 2.65e-10 0.01 -0.16 0.10 -0.18 provides direct substantive explanation or definition 6% 5% 0.31 3.78e-08 -0.05 -0.05 -0.18 0.11 gives detailed, actionable step-by-step guidance 2% 6% 0.30 7.10e-08 -0.19 0.42 0.10 -0.16 states a definite stance on sensitive issues 1% 1% 0.28 1.01e-06 0.24 -0.24 0.05 0.24 avoids giving political opinions or analysis 9% 16% 0.27 1.90e-06 0.00 -0.05 -0.04 0.15 terse or empty reply without elaboration 10% 4% 0.26 3.41e-06 0.03 -0.47 -0.09 0.19 provides an on-topic answer instead of refusing 2% 10% 0.26 4.76e-06 -0.21 0.68 0.06 -0.24 does not claim personal preferences or experiences 6% 1% 0.23 4.18e-05 0.36 -1.00 -0.13 0.25 does not directly answer the prompt 13% 16% 0.23 4.69e-05 -0.08 0.08 -0.16 0.19 does not use AI-disclaimer neutrality hedging 2% 5% 0.22 1.32e-04 -0.20 0.64 -0.07 -0.41 gives detailed factual background on conflict 

> COMMUNITY

33% 7% 0.75 1.14e-54 0.38 -0.21 -0.01 -0.18 narrative paragraph format without bullet lists 35% 6% 0.71 8.18e-48 0.52 -0.36 -0.10 -0.21 written as narrative paragraphs, not a list 49% 2% 0.69 3.14e-43 0.40 -0.36 -0.35 0.23 uses structured bullet-point lists/templates 2% 10% 0.65 1.67e-37 -0.11 0.14 0.26 -0.07 written as continuous prose, not a list 53% 2% 0.64 4.07e-36 0.40 -0.46 -0.30 -0.20 uses structured outline/list format 1% 12% 0.61 9.40e-32 -0.67 0.65 0.60 -0.26 uses structured, formatted documents or lists 1% 3% 0.57 1.28e-27 0.13 0.08 0.09 -0.08 emphasizes sustainability and environmental impact 2% 4% 0.53 5.47e-23 -0.07 0.20 0.15 -0.33 abstract, long-form philosophical exposition 5% 5% 0.49 1.89e-19 0.05 -0.33 -0.13 0.23 focuses on evocative, experiential descriptions, not logistics 1% 2% 0.45 1.05e-16 0.14 -0.10 -0.19 0.22 emphasizes technological/AI-driven solutions 3% 2% 0.43 1.16e-14 0.02 -0.00 -0.26 0.20 does not emphasize DEI or social justice 0% 0% 0.40 7.52e-13 0.28 0.11 -0.02 -0.27 prose narrative, not screenplay format 2% 1% 0.39 3.09e-12 0.09 0.05 -0.21 0.03 does not emphasize historical/heritage content 100% 0% 0.38 1.20e-11 -0.22 -0.31 -0.69 0.47 uses a formal, elevated tone 0% 1% 0.38 1.45e-11 -0.29 0.39 0.15 -0.32 does not include a sample template 3% 3% 0.37 6.62e-11 0.35 -0.12 -0.18 -0.06 uses descriptive long-form prose instead of lists 1% 1% 0.36 1.31e-10 -0.03 -0.06 0.16 0.09 emphasizes direct interpersonal communication and support 1% 1% 0.36 1.97e-10 0.11 0.21 0.26 -0.14 does not emphasize mindfulness or holistic self-care 1% 0% 0.35 3.55e-10 0.04 -0.45 -0.33 0.25 focuses on policies, safeguards, and official processes 1% 2% 0.33 5.67e-09 -0.06 0.00 -0.09 0.15 avoids time-management and scheduling advice 1% 1% 0.28 6.91e-07 -0.13 0.06 0.10 -0.35 interprets subjects in spiritual/mythic terms 0% 1% 0.28 7.20e-07 -0.05 -0.18 0.04 0.12 avoids first-person capability statements 1% 1% 0.27 1.50e-06 0.15 -0.44 -0.39 0.33 does not emphasize luxury or exclusivity 2% 1% 0.27 1.81e-06 0.30 -0.23 -0.22 0.20 emphasizes urban comforts and cultural amenities 1% 0% 0.26 4.63e-06 0.24 -0.07 -0.05 0.03 focuses on functional, technical specifications 3% 7% 0.24 2.64e-05 -0.18 0.06 0.15 -0.07 gives high-level guidance, not itemized lists 1% 1% 0.24 3.67e-05 -0.04 0.39 0.41 -0.23 prioritizes balance, adaptability, and self-care 3% 1% 0.22 1.24e-04 0.25 -0.37 -0.38 0.23 recommends conventional, non-immersive options 1% 2% 0.20 5.99e-04 -0.17 0.26 0.26 -0.27 uses a formal, impersonal tone 

Table 7: Discovered conditional SAE features. Prevalence gives the proportion of preference pairs for which the feature is positively (+) or negatively (-) active. Correlation gives the Pearson correlation coefficient and corresponding p value between the SAE’s latent dimension and LLM annotations for the description. The weights columns give the conditional association weights between the latent feature and each CM region. 

25 Table 8: Summary statistics for individual SHAP values on PRISM . We exclude model identity fixed effects. 

Turn User Margin 100.00% 0.35 +0.98 +0.45 1.51 0.11 +0.96 +0.14 5.83 0.25 +0.96 +0.30 1.90 English Flag 1.23% 0.00 +0.24 +0.01 43.78 0.00 -0.94 -0.13 9.25 0.00 +0.87 +0.10 8.10 PII Flag 2.34% 0.00 -0.34 -0.01 25.49 0.00 +0.74 +0.04 17.47 0.00 -0.72 -0.04 12.14 Moderation Flag 0.57% 0.00 +0.99 +0.21 2.83 0.00 +0.97 +0.23 4.08 0.00 +0.81 +0.06 12.52 Conversation Unguided 39.27% 0.01 +0.47 +0.01 48.40 0.02 -0.69 -0.04 33.52 0.02 +0.91 +0.04 22.49 Controversy Guided 30.11% 0.03 -0.90 -0.07 12.03 0.02 -0.33 -0.02 37.37 0.02 -0.79 -0.05 17.31 Values Guided 30.62% 0.02 -0.95 -0.05 17.06 0.01 -0.51 -0.02 46.89 0.01 -0.72 -0.02 40.64 Conversation / Rating Helpfulness 99.39% 0.01 +0.08 +0.00 45.55 0.02 +0.74 +0.02 46.14 0.02 -0.92 -0.03 27.29 Creativity 89.81% 0.02 +0.87 +0.03 22.28 0.02 +0.31 +0.01 47.89 0.01 +0.68 +0.02 39.11 Diversity 88.45% 0.01 -0.72 -0.01 44.15 0.02 -0.48 -0.01 49.88 0.01 +0.02 +0.00 43.89 Safety 94.29% 0.01 -0.54 -0.01 54.47 0.02 +0.24 +0.01 51.42 0.01 -0.73 -0.01 47.99 Values 88.64% 0.01 -0.71 -0.01 39.94 0.02 -0.43 -0.02 37.53 0.01 -0.40 -0.01 54.69 Factuality 97.96% 0.01 +0.58 +0.01 47.25 0.02 +0.40 +0.01 49.56 0.01 -0.21 -0.00 62.32 Fluency 99.62% 0.02 -0.91 -0.03 28.11 0.02 -0.64 -0.02 51.01 0.01 -0.48 -0.01 67.20 User / Age 18-24 20.11% 0.01 -0.83 -0.03 31.35 0.01 -0.55 -0.02 39.34 0.01 -0.69 -0.01 55.91 25-34 31.01% 0.01 -0.79 -0.03 25.03 0.02 -0.72 -0.04 29.70 0.00 -0.17 -0.00 66.22 35-44 16.08% 0.00 -0.58 -0.01 57.39 0.01 -0.57 -0.02 43.01 0.00 +0.65 +0.01 47.88 45-54 13.54% 0.00 +0.03 +0.00 39.73 0.01 -0.20 -0.01 41.16 0.00 +0.14 +0.00 47.19 55-65 12.87% 0.00 +0.45 +0.01 39.26 0.01 +0.00 +0.00 46.07 0.00 +0.62 +0.02 27.16 65+ 6.39% 0.00 -0.79 -0.01 39.48 0.01 -0.72 -0.04 21.29 0.00 +0.89 +0.03 18.59 User / Education Some Primary 0.24% 0.00 -0.99 -0.15 3.29 0.00 -0.93 -0.12 5.10 0.00 +0.45 +0.01 41.42 Completed Primary School 0.96% 0.00 +0.72 +0.03 13.19 0.00 +0.89 +0.10 6.22 0.00 -0.92 -0.08 6.85 Some Secondary 1.54% 0.00 +0.96 +0.12 4.45 0.00 +0.71 +0.05 15.54 0.00 +0.92 +0.09 7.05 Secondary 13.78% 0.01 -0.92 -0.06 11.10 0.01 -0.74 -0.04 25.91 0.00 +0.06 +0.00 43.09 Some University 15.49% 0.01 +0.84 +0.02 31.13 0.01 +0.63 +0.03 27.17 0.01 +0.18 +0.00 37.01 Vocational 8.10% 0.00 -0.65 -0.02 32.71 0.01 -0.53 -0.02 29.73 0.00 +0.48 +0.02 29.26 Bachelors Degree 42.66% 0.01 -0.50 -0.01 65.17 0.02 -0.44 -0.02 62.90 0.01 +0.55 +0.01 57.36 Professional Degree 16.78% 0.01 +0.75 +0.02 25.70 0.01 -0.55 -0.02 47.29 0.01 +0.94 +0.05 14.03 Prefer not to Say 0.45% 0.00 -0.80 -0.04 14.76 0.00 -0.79 -0.07 12.86 0.00 +0.22 +0.01 18.00 User / Employment Student 12.67% 0.01 -0.67 -0.02 31.51 0.01 -0.88 -0.06 17.09 0.01 +0.93 +0.04 16.41 Unemployed/Not looking 3.27% 0.01 +0.95 +0.07 7.34 0.00 +0.47 +0.02 18.53 0.01 +0.91 +0.07 8.64 Unemployed/Looking 7.94% 0.01 -0.87 -0.05 12.47 0.01 -0.60 -0.03 22.98 0.00 -0.27 -0.01 31.65 Homemaker 3.07% 0.00 -0.96 -0.07 7.81 0.00 -0.86 -0.07 8.53 0.00 +0.18 +0.00 43.10 Working/Part-time 17.48% 0.00 +0.15 +0.00 43.59 0.01 +0.29 +0.01 49.43 0.00 -0.21 -0.00 54.63 Working/Full-time 47.53% 0.01 -0.62 -0.01 79.99 0.01 -0.34 -0.01 71.62 0.01 +0.44 +0.01 61.86 Retired 6.68% 0.00 +0.33 +0.01 35.25 0.00 -0.11 -0.00 45.90 0.00 +0.35 +0.01 33.68 Prefer not to Say 1.36% 0.00 +0.62 +0.01 29.60 0.00 +0.93 +0.11 5.34 0.00 -0.89 -0.06 8.86 User / English Proficiency Basic 0.30% 0.00 -0.97 -0.16 3.53 0.00 -0.94 -0.20 2.61 0.00 +0.90 +0.10 6.48 Intermediate 2.80% 0.00 -0.50 -0.01 41.63 0.00 -0.44 -0.02 26.53 0.00 +0.42 +0.02 22.19 Advanced 10.85% 0.00 -0.85 -0.02 29.17 0.01 -0.84 -0.06 15.83 0.00 +0.51 +0.01 34.26 Fluent 26.84% 0.01 -0.86 -0.04 17.02 0.01 -0.33 -0.01 44.18 0.01 -0.78 -0.04 19.45 Native 59.22% 0.02 -0.85 -0.04 63.69 0.01 -0.55 -0.02 99.90 0.01 -0.81 -0.02 99.72 User / Ethnicity Asian 6.46% 0.00 +0.60 +0.02 21.77 0.00 -0.33 -0.02 26.99 0.01 +0.91 +0.05 12.60 Black 7.59% 0.00 -0.81 -0.01 46.34 0.00 -0.53 -0.02 40.12 0.00 +0.67 +0.02 41.33 Hispanic 8.50% 0.00 -0.43 -0.01 40.88 0.00 +0.47 +0.02 39.96 0.00 +0.34 +0.01 28.20 Indigenous 0.54% 0.00 -0.03 -0.00 13.10 0.00 -0.38 -0.03 18.75 0.00 +0.24 +0.01 19.55 Middle Eastern 0.92% 0.00 -0.92 -0.06 9.05 0.00 +0.56 +0.04 20.11 0.00 -0.93 -0.08 7.38 Mixed 4.94% 0.00 -0.61 -0.02 25.99 0.00 -0.68 -0.03 27.76 0.00 +0.67 +0.03 19.55 White 65.19% 0.01 -0.66 -0.02 77.71 0.02 -0.49 -0.02 75.70 0.01 +0.21 +0.00 92.11 Other 1.03% 0.00 -0.58 -0.02 19.28 0.00 +0.13 +0.01 22.43 0.00 -0.62 -0.03 17.17 Prefer not to Say 4.82% 0.00 -0.50 -0.01 45.58 0.00 -0.56 -0.03 25.30 0.00 +0.63 +0.02 25.54 User / Gender Female 47.94% 0.01 -0.89 -0.03 50.64 0.01 -0.62 -0.02 75.98 0.01 -0.81 -0.02 65.37 Male 50.42% 0.04 -0.92 -0.07 14.56 0.03 -0.82 -0.06 32.07 0.01 -0.55 -0.01 66.73 Non-binary / Third 1.58% 0.00 -0.74 -0.02 23.83 0.00 -0.53 -0.02 29.71 0.00 +0.75 +0.03 20.94 Prefer not to Say 0.07% 0.00 -0.56 -0.03 12.95 0.00 -0.22 -0.02 14.27 0.00 -0.73 -0.05 9.58 

Block Name Prop TM TG CM 

MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR 

26 Table 8: Summary statistics for individual SHAP values on PRISM . We exclude model identity fixed effects. (Continued) 

User / LLM Familiarity Not familiar 9.78% 0.01 -0.85 -0.05 13.73 0.01 -0.73 -0.04 19.87 0.00 -0.10 -0.00 56.48 Somewhat 62.13% 0.02 -0.91 -0.04 41.91 0.02 -0.72 -0.04 51.26 0.01 -0.58 -0.01 89.38 Very 28.08% 0.02 -0.95 -0.06 13.54 0.02 -0.87 -0.05 28.67 0.01 -0.70 -0.02 39.22 User / LLM Frequency < Once a Year 10.50% 0.00 -0.01 -0.00 56.09 0.00 -0.01 -0.00 59.85 0.00 -0.14 -0.00 39.16 Once per Month 26.30% 0.01 -0.72 -0.01 58.55 0.01 -0.70 -0.03 40.55 0.01 +0.40 +0.01 47.41 > Once a Month 19.27% 0.01 -0.70 -0.01 51.26 0.01 -0.25 -0.01 55.06 0.01 -0.53 -0.02 42.13 Every Week 20.45% 0.01 -0.48 -0.01 28.49 0.01 +0.77 +0.03 26.40 0.02 -0.92 -0.05 13.75 Every Day 7.30% 0.01 -0.91 -0.04 13.26 0.01 -0.71 -0.04 22.00 0.00 -0.60 -0.01 49.60 User / Location Sub-Saharan Africa 5.28% 0.00 +0.48 +0.02 14.13 0.00 -0.72 -0.04 25.52 0.01 +0.95 +0.08 6.95 Northern America 27.91% 0.01 -0.40 -0.01 56.94 0.01 -0.71 -0.03 38.30 0.01 +0.44 +0.01 47.17 Latin America 9.28% 0.00 -0.59 -0.02 32.06 0.00 -0.24 -0.01 42.43 0.00 -0.12 -0.00 47.86 Eastern Asia 1.25% 0.00 -0.41 -0.01 27.53 0.00 -0.69 -0.07 10.34 0.00 +0.80 +0.04 14.70 Western Asia 3.85% 0.00 -0.71 -0.02 25.67 0.01 -0.96 -0.13 5.63 0.01 +0.95 +0.11 4.81 Aus & NZ 10.17% 0.00 +0.60 +0.01 32.55 0.01 +0.42 +0.02 36.48 0.00 +0.63 +0.02 25.20 Northern Europe 29.70% 0.01 +0.53 +0.01 59.87 0.01 +0.50 +0.02 55.38 0.01 -0.13 -0.00 69.94 Eastern Europe 2.95% 0.00 -0.50 -0.01 32.11 0.00 +0.07 +0.00 33.73 0.00 -0.18 -0.01 30.27 Western Europe 5.37% 0.00 +0.06 +0.00 38.54 0.00 +0.18 +0.01 18.69 0.00 -0.03 -0.00 38.73 Southern Europe 4.16% 0.00 +0.90 +0.02 24.59 0.00 +0.90 +0.08 9.70 0.00 -0.82 -0.04 14.02 Prefer not to Say 0.08% 0.00 +0.99 +0.19 2.69 0.00 +0.96 +0.29 1.44 0.00 -0.91 -0.13 4.22 User / Marital Married 30.04% 0.01 -0.88 -0.03 29.70 0.01 -0.46 -0.02 45.98 0.01 +0.14 +0.00 68.95 Never Married 59.45% 0.01 -0.79 -0.02 73.28 0.01 -0.09 -0.00 94.95 0.01 -0.18 -0.00 104.23 Divorced 7.71% 0.01 -0.88 -0.04 13.84 0.01 -0.52 -0.04 18.59 0.00 +0.01 +0.00 33.31 Widowed 1.47% 0.00 +0.27 +0.01 26.89 0.00 -0.29 -0.02 21.99 0.00 +0.45 +0.01 33.03 Prefer not to Say 1.33% 0.00 -0.50 -0.02 17.41 0.00 -0.85 -0.10 7.12 0.00 +0.92 +0.07 8.97 User / Religion Agnostic 4.87% 0.00 -0.46 -0.01 29.30 0.00 -0.54 -0.04 20.30 0.00 +0.17 +0.00 30.09 Buddhist 0.65% 0.00 -0.11 -0.00 24.63 0.00 -0.86 -0.11 7.60 0.00 +0.91 +0.10 6.03 Christian 31.81% 0.00 -0.31 -0.00 79.01 0.01 -0.11 -0.00 59.95 0.01 -0.23 -0.00 61.52 Folk Religion 0.46% 0.00 -0.99 -0.18 2.97 0.00 -0.85 -0.15 3.76 0.00 +0.19 +0.01 26.74 Hindu 0.33% 0.00 -0.64 -0.02 20.15 0.00 -0.69 -0.04 16.75 0.00 +0.60 +0.02 27.41 Jewish 2.59% 0.00 +0.89 +0.03 16.82 0.01 +0.97 +0.15 4.11 0.01 -0.91 -0.09 6.32 Muslim 2.20% 0.01 -0.98 -0.13 3.70 0.00 -0.84 -0.07 10.81 0.00 -0.74 -0.03 18.59 Non-Religious 51.61% 0.01 +0.05 +0.00 64.58 0.02 -0.83 -0.04 46.78 0.01 +0.77 +0.01 69.59 Sikh 0.23% 0.00 -0.98 -0.27 1.90 0.00 -0.91 -0.13 4.54 0.00 -0.98 -0.12 4.53 Spiritual 1.07% 0.00 +0.98 +0.12 4.17 0.00 -0.08 -0.01 14.83 0.00 +0.83 +0.06 8.67 Other 0.20% 0.00 -0.95 -0.24 2.17 0.00 -0.86 -0.15 4.88 0.00 -0.78 -0.06 10.39 Prefer not to Say 3.97% 0.00 -0.92 -0.05 10.22 0.00 -0.09 -0.00 37.34 0.00 -0.63 -0.02 20.22 AnthroScore Anthro Score 29.04% 0.01 +0.49 +0.01 27.49 0.01 +0.62 +0.01 31.36 0.01 -0.05 -0.00 39.49 Complexity Num Lemmas 97.76% 0.07 +0.90 +0.02 7.24 0.16 +0.95 +0.04 3.19 0.10 -0.95 -0.03 4.97 Num Tokens 98.19% 0.04 +0.69 +0.01 12.96 0.07 +0.86 +0.02 10.61 0.05 -0.78 -0.01 11.64 Num Sents 80.20% 0.02 +0.12 +0.00 26.71 0.07 +0.82 +0.02 9.04 0.04 -0.76 -0.01 12.79 Type-to-Token Ratio 99.27% 0.03 -0.99 -0.26 20.28 0.06 -0.99 -0.52 15.71 0.04 +0.98 +0.31 19.16 Num Entities 63.23% 0.03 +0.21 +0.00 14.76 0.03 +0.54 +0.01 22.25 0.02 -0.22 -0.00 25.73 Avg Sent Length 98.77% 0.04 -0.32 -0.00 13.11 0.04 +0.08 +0.00 21.78 0.02 -0.07 -0.00 26.41 Syllables per Word 99.03% 0.04 +0.99 +0.21 14.11 0.06 +0.98 +0.33 14.04 0.02 -0.96 -0.13 27.76 Entities per Sent 68.81% 0.02 +0.70 +0.02 23.05 0.03 +0.84 +0.04 21.99 0.01 -0.66 -0.02 35.80 

Block Name Prop TM TG CM 

MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR 

27 Table 8: Summary statistics for individual SHAP values on PRISM . We exclude model identity fixed effects. (Continued) 

Dialog Acts Comment 94.63% 0.01 +0.21 +0.00 91.19 0.06 +0.97 +0.08 15.35 0.06 -0.97 -0.08 10.02 Respond to Apology 94.63% 0.02 +0.93 +0.03 36.97 0.06 +0.97 +0.09 12.74 0.05 -0.98 -0.08 11.08 Abandon 94.63% 0.01 +0.74 +0.02 42.21 0.06 +0.96 +0.09 15.66 0.04 -0.92 -0.06 16.09 Appreciation 94.63% 0.00 +0.46 +0.00 97.07 0.03 -0.95 -0.06 25.86 0.04 +0.97 +0.06 17.69 Opinion 94.63% 0.01 +0.74 +0.01 55.26 0.04 +0.96 +0.06 24.74 0.03 -0.96 -0.05 19.00 Nonesense 94.63% 0.02 -0.95 -0.03 28.26 0.05 -0.96 -0.07 20.50 0.03 +0.95 +0.04 20.51 Question - Factual 94.63% 0.02 +0.93 +0.03 29.13 0.05 +0.96 +0.07 17.10 0.03 -0.94 -0.04 25.34 Complaint 94.63% 0.02 -0.92 -0.03 28.66 0.04 -0.90 -0.06 23.35 0.03 +0.92 +0.04 26.54 Apology 94.63% 0.02 -0.95 -0.03 29.14 0.05 -0.96 -0.07 19.54 0.02 +0.93 +0.03 27.97 Open Question - Opinion 94.63% 0.02 -0.95 -0.03 25.48 0.05 -0.97 -0.07 16.70 0.02 +0.92 +0.03 29.15 Statement 94.63% 0.01 -0.48 -0.01 79.31 0.04 -0.94 -0.05 28.47 0.02 +0.94 +0.03 33.13 Hold 94.63% 0.01 -0.80 -0.01 53.22 0.03 -0.93 -0.05 25.11 0.02 +0.89 +0.03 35.19 Answer - Pos 94.63% 0.02 -0.91 -0.03 33.74 0.01 +0.56 +0.01 83.88 0.02 -0.85 -0.03 40.12 Opening 94.63% 0.05 +0.99 +0.08 9.71 0.06 +0.97 +0.10 12.52 0.02 -0.90 -0.02 43.54 Other Answers 94.63% 0.02 -0.89 -0.03 31.12 0.04 -0.91 -0.05 25.01 0.01 +0.86 +0.02 43.88 Dev Command 94.63% 0.02 -0.87 -0.02 35.85 0.03 -0.84 -0.04 33.00 0.01 +0.77 +0.02 54.59 Command 94.63% 0.03 -0.95 -0.04 19.95 0.03 -0.88 -0.05 29.83 0.01 +0.67 +0.01 57.37 Back Channeling 94.63% 0.01 +0.46 +0.01 70.63 0.01 +0.64 +0.02 66.20 0.01 -0.67 -0.01 57.50 Other 94.63% 0.04 -0.97 -0.05 16.45 0.02 -0.87 -0.03 49.20 0.01 -0.57 -0.01 59.67 Answer - Neg 94.63% 0.04 -0.98 -0.06 14.09 0.05 -0.93 -0.08 15.87 0.01 +0.57 +0.01 67.20 Question - Yes / No 94.63% 0.01 -0.10 -0.00 84.92 0.01 -0.09 -0.00 96.00 0.01 +0.43 +0.01 78.87 Closing Delta 94.63% 0.01 +0.42 +0.00 79.67 0.01 +0.50 +0.01 69.68 0.01 +0.02 +0.00 83.45 Thanking 94.63% 0.01 -0.75 -0.01 60.49 0.01 -0.08 -0.00 93.59 0.01 +0.38 +0.00 88.08 Emotions Approval 100.00% 0.01 +0.54 +0.01 46.37 0.04 +0.91 +0.06 19.70 0.04 -0.94 -0.05 17.10 Anger 100.00% 0.02 -0.90 -0.03 30.77 0.05 -0.93 -0.06 17.88 0.03 +0.92 +0.04 24.31 Caring 100.00% 0.01 +0.34 +0.01 44.07 0.02 +0.82 +0.03 38.58 0.02 -0.73 -0.03 28.23 Nervousness 100.00% 0.01 +0.60 +0.01 62.63 0.01 -0.77 -0.02 70.11 0.02 +0.87 +0.03 31.24 Pride 100.00% 0.01 -0.74 -0.02 42.32 0.04 -0.85 -0.05 23.85 0.02 +0.87 +0.03 32.83 Love 100.00% 0.01 +0.79 +0.01 46.42 0.03 +0.89 +0.04 27.40 0.02 -0.89 -0.02 34.72 Grief 100.00% 0.01 +0.42 +0.01 54.68 0.01 -0.50 -0.01 67.45 0.02 +0.77 +0.02 38.17 Disgust 100.00% 0.01 +0.13 +0.00 59.23 0.02 +0.76 +0.03 40.57 0.01 -0.82 -0.02 44.11 Fear 100.00% 0.01 +0.20 +0.00 82.05 0.02 +0.61 +0.02 51.99 0.01 -0.87 -0.02 44.18 Optimism 100.00% 0.01 -0.71 -0.01 55.17 0.02 -0.78 -0.03 37.74 0.01 +0.76 +0.02 45.59 Desire 100.00% 0.01 -0.27 -0.00 71.11 0.01 -0.54 -0.01 66.65 0.01 +0.84 +0.02 48.53 Surprise 100.00% 0.01 +0.59 +0.01 48.84 0.01 +0.33 +0.01 64.22 0.01 -0.33 -0.01 51.39 Neutral 100.00% 0.03 +0.90 +0.04 21.38 0.04 +0.91 +0.05 24.43 0.01 -0.75 -0.01 52.71 Realization 100.00% 0.01 +0.13 +0.00 59.35 0.01 -0.06 -0.00 60.27 0.01 +0.34 +0.01 53.81 Disapproval 100.00% 0.01 +0.81 +0.02 45.38 0.03 +0.89 +0.04 33.53 0.01 -0.74 -0.01 54.28 Remorse 100.00% 0.01 -0.86 -0.02 41.69 0.02 -0.88 -0.04 35.30 0.01 +0.65 +0.02 54.69 Confusion 100.00% 0.01 -0.78 -0.02 40.32 0.02 +0.31 +0.01 56.20 0.01 -0.33 -0.01 56.74 Amusement 100.00% 0.02 +0.72 +0.02 33.36 0.02 +0.67 +0.02 37.75 0.01 -0.09 -0.00 58.69 Relief 100.00% 0.01 -0.35 -0.01 60.18 0.02 +0.34 +0.01 51.45 0.01 -0.68 -0.01 59.15 Disappointment 100.00% 0.01 -0.71 -0.01 54.97 0.01 -0.50 -0.01 61.75 0.01 +0.13 +0.00 59.31 Sadness 100.00% 0.01 +0.21 +0.00 70.06 0.01 +0.58 +0.01 61.84 0.01 -0.18 -0.00 59.98 Gratitude 100.00% 0.01 -0.70 -0.01 48.79 0.01 -0.15 -0.00 69.16 0.01 -0.45 -0.01 66.18 Excitement 100.00% 0.01 -0.28 -0.00 90.83 0.01 +0.24 +0.01 64.68 0.01 -0.33 -0.01 66.67 Annoyance 100.00% 0.01 -0.29 -0.00 65.53 0.01 -0.28 -0.01 74.76 0.01 -0.18 -0.00 70.88 Admiration 100.00% 0.01 +0.12 +0.00 43.86 0.01 -0.18 -0.00 62.65 0.01 +0.28 +0.00 71.50 Curiosity 100.00% 0.02 +0.79 +0.02 30.86 0.02 +0.61 +0.02 55.38 0.01 +0.18 +0.00 72.43 Joy 100.00% 0.01 -0.10 -0.00 69.57 0.01 -0.38 -0.01 64.82 0.01 +0.45 +0.01 73.46 Embarrassment 100.00% 0.01 +0.71 +0.01 46.01 0.02 +0.63 +0.02 49.12 0.01 -0.13 -0.00 74.48 Politeness Impolite 99.99% 0.01 -0.42 -0.01 69.84 0.03 -0.90 -0.05 27.12 0.03 +0.94 +0.04 20.77 Neutral 99.99% 0.01 +0.54 +0.01 57.72 0.02 -0.66 -0.02 50.44 0.02 +0.89 +0.03 30.20 Somewhat Polite 99.99% 0.02 +0.79 +0.02 36.62 0.01 -0.01 -0.00 78.10 0.01 +0.78 +0.02 44.21 Polite 99.99% 0.02 +0.81 +0.02 37.39 0.01 +0.45 +0.01 68.11 0.02 +0.84 +0.02 42.02 

Block Name Prop TM TG CM 

MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR 

28 Table 8: Summary statistics for individual SHAP values on PRISM . We exclude model identity fixed effects. (Continued) 

Rule-based Rewards Partial Compliance 23.23% 0.05 +0.96 +0.14 4.76 0.14 +0.98 +0.39 1.64 0.09 -0.97 -0.25 2.27 Third Person 0.93% 0.00 -0.45 -0.02 15.58 0.00 -0.96 -0.27 2.55 0.00 +0.97 +0.21 2.56 Full Compliance 35.24% 0.07 +0.98 +0.18 2.96 0.13 +0.99 +0.30 2.02 0.05 -0.96 -0.12 5.08 Disclaimer 2.11% 0.01 -0.95 -0.12 4.38 0.01 -0.97 -0.21 2.99 0.00 +0.95 +0.11 5.32 Meta Commentary 11.88% 0.01 -0.95 -0.11 5.26 0.03 -0.98 -0.22 2.96 0.01 +0.96 +0.11 5.34 Provides Resources 1.13% 0.00 +0.21 +0.01 20.38 0.00 +0.89 +0.09 9.23 0.00 -0.92 -0.07 7.27 Judgement 3.38% 0.00 +0.98 +0.08 7.53 0.00 +0.95 +0.09 11.58 0.00 -0.86 -0.04 17.74 Prescribes Solutions 5.65% 0.00 +0.37 +0.01 32.67 0.00 +0.16 +0.00 52.30 0.00 -0.79 -0.02 25.14 Definitive Verbiage 1.12% 0.00 -0.83 -0.02 28.50 0.00 -0.77 -0.03 27.68 0.00 -0.15 -0.00 30.29 Non-Compliance 1.65% 0.00 -0.97 -0.07 9.11 0.00 -0.96 -0.12 8.21 0.00 +0.67 +0.02 31.14 Gentle Encouragement for Help 2.12% 0.00 -0.50 -0.01 25.14 0.00 -0.63 -0.03 23.26 0.00 +0.54 +0.01 41.80 Safety Policy 1.04% 0.00 +0.95 +0.08 6.79 0.00 +0.65 +0.03 18.14 0.00 +0.08 +0.00 43.55 Hedging 28.77% 0.01 -0.85 -0.02 28.12 0.01 +0.29 +0.01 54.63 0.00 -0.69 -0.01 43.72 Professional Help 5.11% 0.00 -0.73 -0.02 25.45 0.00 -0.27 -0.01 40.50 0.00 -0.10 -0.00 50.81 Acknowledges Emotional State 0.93% 0.00 -0.59 -0.02 25.98 0.00 +0.38 +0.02 27.70 0.00 +0.34 +0.01 57.17 Sycophancy Framing 14.53% 0.01 -0.96 -0.07 8.89 0.03 -0.98 -0.18 4.41 0.02 +0.97 +0.12 5.35 Validation 8.13% 0.01 +0.91 +0.05 12.14 0.01 +0.94 +0.09 9.06 0.01 -0.94 -0.05 13.71 Indirectness 27.41% 0.00 +0.64 +0.01 42.46 0.02 +0.86 +0.04 22.72 0.01 -0.78 -0.03 23.82 

Block Name Prop TM TG CM 

MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR 

29 Table 9: Summary statistics for individual SHAP values on COMMUNITY .

Turn Entropy 27.24% 0.41 -0.98 -1.85 1.26 0.16 -0.91 -0.71 2.08 0.18 -0.93 -0.83 1.63 Margin 98.74% 0.45 +0.95 +2.28 1.91 0.26 +0.79 +1.29 4.13 0.31 +0.94 +1.17 1.42 User / Age 18-34 46.38% 0.02 -0.62 -0.03 31.35 0.03 +0.31 +0.03 24.80 0.01 +0.12 +0.00 40.78 35-45 21.09% 0.02 -0.88 -0.05 11.14 0.03 -0.73 -0.08 9.80 0.01 +0.60 +0.02 23.97 46-54 16.79% 0.03 -0.93 -0.08 6.99 0.05 -0.89 -0.16 4.65 0.01 +0.81 +0.04 15.65 55+ 14.46% 0.03 -0.82 -0.10 6.13 0.06 -0.86 -0.22 3.20 0.02 +0.83 +0.06 11.86 User / Gender female 50.99% 0.05 -0.96 -0.10 9.42 0.04 -0.68 -0.06 20.73 0.02 -0.76 -0.03 30.78 male 48.80% 0.05 -0.96 -0.09 11.35 0.04 +0.11 +0.01 26.95 0.04 -0.88 -0.07 18.83 User / Education (At most) Complete Secondary 22.28% 0.22 -0.96 -0.59 1.14 0.31 -0.93 -0.82 1.06 0.13 +0.94 +0.34 1.24 Some post-secondary 6.56% 0.03 -0.87 -0.22 2.63 0.03 -0.78 -0.24 2.37 0.01 +0.60 +0.06 7.10 Post-secondary graduate 36.84% 0.02 +0.64 +0.04 16.22 0.05 +0.51 +0.07 12.38 0.03 -0.86 -0.07 12.48 Some or complete graduate degree 33.29% 0.02 +0.17 +0.01 26.37 0.05 +0.56 +0.07 13.94 0.04 -0.90 -0.08 14.06 Other 0.18% 0.00 -0.03 -0.00 16.41 0.00 -0.31 -0.03 11.81 0.00 +0.43 +0.02 15.62 User / Political Very left-leaning 7.96% 0.01 -0.70 -0.04 12.83 0.01 -0.14 -0.01 12.12 0.01 -0.67 -0.04 12.76 Somewhat left-leaning 19.65% 0.01 -0.54 -0.02 23.52 0.02 +0.52 +0.05 12.22 0.02 -0.80 -0.07 9.53 Middle-of-the-road, centrist 26.31% 0.01 -0.68 -0.02 29.40 0.03 +0.64 +0.07 14.07 0.03 -0.85 -0.07 11.76 Somewhat right-leaning 9.78% 0.01 +0.21 +0.01 14.02 0.03 +0.64 +0.10 6.37 0.02 -0.91 -0.10 6.49 Very right-leaning 6.81% 0.00 -0.34 -0.01 21.52 0.01 +0.76 +0.10 5.88 0.01 -0.93 -0.08 6.50 Prefer not to say 7.74% 0.01 -0.28 -0.01 12.87 0.01 +0.19 +0.02 12.37 0.00 -0.61 -0.03 17.90 I don’t think of myself in this way 21.75% 0.02 -0.73 -0.04 17.00 0.03 +0.60 +0.06 11.78 0.03 -0.87 -0.09 7.96 User / Ethnicity Asian 3.09% 0.00 +0.82 +0.06 8.28 0.01 +0.87 +0.22 2.05 0.01 -0.93 -0.13 3.03 Black or African American 4.10% 0.01 -0.88 -0.07 7.76 0.01 -0.40 -0.04 10.69 0.01 -0.72 -0.08 5.09 Dravidian 14.05% 0.02 -0.94 -0.08 6.75 0.02 -0.63 -0.07 8.18 0.01 -0.83 -0.04 14.70 Hispanic or Latino 6.56% 0.01 -0.87 -0.09 6.12 0.01 -0.65 -0.09 5.30 0.01 -0.45 -0.03 13.63 Indo-Aryan 38.92% 0.04 -0.95 -0.09 10.02 0.04 -0.41 -0.04 17.28 0.03 -0.86 -0.06 16.58 Other 3.27% 0.01 +0.67 +0.09 5.42 0.02 +0.76 +0.29 1.77 0.01 -0.83 -0.09 5.06 Prefer not to say 5.17% 0.00 +0.39 +0.01 19.02 0.01 +0.48 +0.05 9.50 0.01 -0.87 -0.12 3.18 White 24.84% 0.02 +0.51 +0.04 13.29 0.05 +0.82 +0.16 4.54 0.04 -0.92 -0.12 6.07 User / Country india 55.80% 0.04 -0.86 -0.08 18.15 0.05 +0.61 +0.08 20.70 0.09 -0.95 -0.19 6.50 united states 44.20% 0.04 -0.90 -0.09 9.33 0.06 +0.57 +0.08 12.10 0.08 -0.95 -0.17 5.37 AnthroScore Anthro Score 15.37% 0.00 -0.46 -0.01 31.19 0.01 -0.63 -0.04 15.39 0.01 +0.72 +0.04 12.05 Complexity Num Tokens 97.69% 0.03 +0.03 +0.00 17.63 0.07 +0.43 +0.01 10.31 0.05 -0.23 -0.00 11.16 Num Sents 59.75% 0.03 -0.70 -0.01 13.75 0.06 -0.30 -0.01 8.22 0.02 +0.25 +0.00 16.64 Num Lemmas 96.09% 0.03 -0.63 -0.01 17.85 0.05 -0.24 -0.00 17.25 0.03 +0.07 +0.00 18.53 Avg Sent Length 98.30% 0.05 -0.59 -0.00 10.52 0.09 -0.58 -0.01 7.04 0.04 +0.10 +0.00 13.27 Syllables per Word 99.79% 0.02 -0.83 -0.13 28.63 0.04 -0.83 -0.32 20.59 0.02 +0.86 +0.21 23.01 Type-to-Token Ratio 99.54% 0.01 -0.78 -0.11 58.50 0.01 -0.82 -0.23 55.84 0.01 +0.75 +0.15 58.75 Num Entities 69.42% 0.04 +0.54 +0.01 13.35 0.07 +0.31 +0.01 9.13 0.03 -0.22 -0.00 13.83 Entities per Sent 75.98% 0.02 +0.68 +0.02 26.17 0.03 +0.50 +0.03 23.17 0.01 +0.07 +0.00 34.72 

Block Name Prop TM TG CM 

MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR 

Continued on next page 30 Table 9: Summary statistics for individual SHAP values on COMMUNITY . (Continued) 

Dialog Acts Question - Factual 90.07% 0.02 -0.61 -0.01 34.06 0.03 -0.58 -0.03 26.75 0.01 +0.80 +0.02 40.01 Thanking 90.07% 0.02 -0.21 -0.01 32.30 0.05 -0.76 -0.07 19.04 0.05 +0.85 +0.07 12.13 Hold 90.07% 0.01 +0.13 +0.00 42.44 0.03 +0.78 +0.04 33.76 0.02 -0.88 -0.03 28.40 Respond to Apology 90.07% 0.02 +0.84 +0.03 34.71 0.01 +0.49 +0.01 55.49 0.01 -0.60 -0.01 57.13 Apology 90.07% 0.02 -0.84 -0.03 25.71 0.02 -0.18 -0.00 51.45 0.01 -0.48 -0.01 55.26 Complaint 90.07% 0.03 -0.57 -0.02 21.02 0.03 -0.49 -0.02 29.50 0.01 +0.55 +0.01 40.13 Statement 90.07% 0.01 +0.65 +0.02 35.37 0.03 +0.90 +0.04 33.28 0.06 -0.92 -0.08 10.08 Back Channeling 90.07% 0.01 -0.31 -0.01 53.48 0.02 +0.23 +0.01 43.41 0.02 -0.87 -0.03 32.18 Open Question - Opinion 90.07% 0.03 +0.87 +0.05 16.20 0.06 +0.84 +0.09 12.24 0.03 -0.79 -0.04 19.61 Other Answers 90.07% 0.04 -0.93 -0.06 15.17 0.09 -0.92 -0.12 8.40 0.05 +0.92 +0.08 11.51 Closing Delta 90.07% 0.02 +0.83 +0.03 25.23 0.04 +0.78 +0.05 23.22 0.02 -0.58 -0.02 36.09 Nonesense 90.07% 0.04 -0.96 -0.06 13.42 0.08 -0.88 -0.10 8.36 0.07 +0.91 +0.09 6.14 Question - Yes / No 90.07% 0.01 +0.33 +0.01 34.39 0.03 +0.23 +0.01 27.37 0.02 +0.74 +0.03 27.55 Appreciation 90.07% 0.03 -0.80 -0.04 17.67 0.07 -0.89 -0.10 10.47 0.03 +0.84 +0.04 26.06 Opening 90.07% 0.02 -0.94 -0.03 27.17 0.03 +0.46 +0.02 35.38 0.03 -0.91 -0.04 26.42 Dev Command 90.07% 0.01 +0.24 +0.01 45.15 0.02 +0.06 +0.00 47.88 0.01 -0.15 -0.00 52.56 Other 90.07% 0.04 -0.93 -0.05 15.30 0.06 -0.86 -0.08 12.01 0.04 +0.86 +0.05 17.34 Abandon 90.07% 0.01 +0.35 +0.01 43.90 0.02 -0.59 -0.03 33.46 0.02 +0.77 +0.03 25.83 Command 90.07% 0.01 -0.53 -0.01 40.17 0.03 -0.59 -0.03 29.96 0.03 +0.82 +0.04 19.36 Answer - Pos 90.07% 0.02 +0.78 +0.02 29.84 0.02 +0.29 +0.01 40.86 0.01 +0.19 +0.00 53.85 Answer - Neg 90.07% 0.01 -0.23 -0.00 41.21 0.03 -0.38 -0.02 33.30 0.01 +0.36 +0.01 46.43 Opinion 90.07% 0.05 -0.92 -0.07 11.44 0.06 -0.81 -0.09 14.82 0.05 +0.87 +0.08 10.14 Comment 90.07% 0.03 +0.81 +0.04 22.53 0.03 +0.73 +0.05 25.23 0.01 -0.22 -0.01 41.27 Emotions Joy 99.96% 0.01 -0.04 -0.00 49.04 0.01 -0.40 -0.01 46.32 0.01 +0.13 +0.00 44.50 Desire 99.96% 0.01 +0.01 +0.00 50.13 0.02 -0.03 -0.00 33.37 0.02 +0.03 +0.00 26.22 Amusement 99.96% 0.01 +0.63 +0.01 40.75 0.03 +0.69 +0.03 27.93 0.02 -0.45 -0.01 32.16 Realization 99.96% 0.01 -0.07 -0.00 48.48 0.02 -0.21 -0.01 46.10 0.01 -0.08 -0.00 45.09 Grief 99.96% 0.01 +0.31 +0.01 36.91 0.02 -0.24 -0.01 39.98 0.01 -0.11 -0.00 39.23 Anger 99.96% 0.01 +0.69 +0.01 41.62 0.02 +0.45 +0.02 37.10 0.01 +0.03 +0.00 38.48 Caring 99.96% 0.01 +0.03 +0.00 40.04 0.02 -0.05 -0.00 40.69 0.01 -0.29 -0.01 34.72 Embarrassment 99.96% 0.01 +0.26 +0.01 43.04 0.02 +0.24 +0.01 37.29 0.01 -0.22 -0.00 43.08 Annoyance 99.96% 0.01 -0.20 -0.00 43.03 0.02 +0.43 +0.01 44.79 0.01 -0.59 -0.01 43.13 Remorse 99.96% 0.02 -0.67 -0.02 33.25 0.02 -0.03 -0.00 38.36 0.01 -0.12 -0.00 42.87 Confusion 99.96% 0.01 -0.08 -0.00 39.76 0.02 +0.07 +0.00 41.78 0.01 -0.45 -0.01 42.68 Gratitude 99.96% 0.01 +0.39 +0.01 44.01 0.02 +0.66 +0.03 33.38 0.01 -0.62 -0.02 38.07 Fear 99.96% 0.01 +0.07 +0.00 42.75 0.02 +0.38 +0.01 43.06 0.01 -0.51 -0.01 39.28 Sadness 99.96% 0.01 -0.09 -0.00 41.20 0.02 -0.24 -0.01 37.62 0.01 +0.22 +0.00 37.10 Disapproval 99.96% 0.01 -0.60 -0.01 36.74 0.03 -0.72 -0.04 27.44 0.01 +0.63 +0.02 36.44 Love 99.96% 0.01 -0.54 -0.01 41.41 0.03 -0.13 -0.01 28.72 0.02 +0.18 +0.01 28.49 Curiosity 99.96% 0.01 +0.35 +0.01 48.02 0.02 +0.12 +0.00 36.51 0.01 -0.14 -0.00 40.70 Approval 99.96% 0.02 -0.68 -0.02 33.63 0.03 -0.71 -0.04 24.45 0.02 +0.61 +0.02 27.15 Excitement 99.96% 0.03 +0.69 +0.03 18.63 0.04 +0.78 +0.05 19.12 0.02 -0.68 -0.03 26.57 Surprise 99.96% 0.01 -0.40 -0.01 38.30 0.02 -0.50 -0.02 33.68 0.02 +0.61 +0.02 27.50 Neutral 99.96% 0.01 -0.59 -0.02 35.73 0.04 -0.55 -0.04 24.48 0.03 +0.68 +0.03 23.29 Relief 99.96% 0.02 -0.76 -0.02 32.61 0.02 -0.18 -0.01 35.48 0.01 +0.52 +0.01 37.62 Disappointment 99.96% 0.01 -0.51 -0.01 38.21 0.02 -0.04 -0.00 33.86 0.01 +0.04 +0.00 35.16 Nervousness 99.96% 0.01 +0.59 +0.01 36.37 0.02 -0.28 -0.01 39.12 0.01 +0.36 +0.01 42.04 Pride 99.96% 0.01 -0.71 -0.01 39.58 0.02 -0.48 -0.02 36.06 0.02 +0.17 +0.00 34.89 Admiration 99.96% 0.01 -0.54 -0.01 39.17 0.02 -0.66 -0.02 36.93 0.01 +0.73 +0.02 40.27 Disgust 99.96% 0.01 +0.21 +0.00 42.47 0.02 -0.04 -0.00 41.75 0.01 -0.18 -0.00 46.05 Optimism 99.96% 0.01 -0.74 -0.02 37.95 0.03 -0.72 -0.03 27.78 0.02 +0.59 +0.01 36.50 Politeness Impolite 99.96% 0.02 +0.29 +0.01 27.97 0.03 +0.15 +0.01 20.95 0.01 -0.12 -0.00 29.17 Neutral 99.96% 0.03 +0.90 +0.04 17.00 0.06 +0.88 +0.08 11.90 0.04 -0.89 -0.05 14.50 Somewhat Polite 99.96% 0.01 -0.31 -0.01 41.88 0.03 -0.50 -0.02 26.75 0.02 +0.37 +0.01 22.61 Polite 99.96% 0.05 +0.91 +0.06 11.41 0.07 +0.90 +0.10 9.12 0.03 -0.88 -0.05 17.43 

Block Name Prop TM TG CM 

MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR 

Continued on next page 31 Table 9: Summary statistics for individual SHAP values on COMMUNITY . (Continued) 

Rule-based Rewards Acknowledges Emotional State 0.21% 0.00 +0.82 +0.08 6.44 0.00 +0.90 +0.21 2.37 0.00 +0.10 +0.01 10.75 Definitive Verbiage 0.51% 0.00 +0.33 +0.03 6.57 0.00 +0.34 +0.05 5.33 0.00 -0.81 -0.06 8.69 Disclaimer 0.04% 0.00 -0.80 -0.13 5.57 0.00 -0.31 -0.04 9.52 0.00 +0.67 +0.04 14.41 Gentle Encouragement for Help 1.61% 0.00 +0.35 +0.02 16.13 0.00 +0.59 +0.08 4.75 0.00 +0.39 +0.02 11.29 Full Compliance 11.94% 0.01 +0.82 +0.06 9.11 0.02 +0.79 +0.09 8.33 0.01 -0.75 -0.06 10.52 Hedging 27.61% 0.01 -0.51 -0.02 16.86 0.03 -0.56 -0.05 10.60 0.01 +0.56 +0.03 15.74 Judgement 1.04% 0.00 -0.55 -0.06 6.16 0.00 -0.77 -0.13 4.24 0.00 +0.66 +0.09 4.18 Meta Commentary 0.49% 0.00 +0.54 +0.03 10.18 0.00 +0.00 +0.00 2.61 0.00 +0.34 +0.02 12.22 Non-Compliance 0.01% 0.00 -0.97 -0.68 1.07 0.00 -0.92 -0.52 1.29 0.00 -0.65 -0.08 5.70 Partial Compliance 11.67% 0.01 +0.61 +0.03 13.69 0.02 +0.64 +0.08 8.69 0.01 -0.75 -0.06 8.87 Prescribes Solutions 1.74% 0.00 +0.44 +0.02 12.30 0.00 -0.32 -0.03 8.37 0.00 +0.18 +0.01 19.95 Professional Help 2.16% 0.00 -0.66 -0.04 9.74 0.00 +0.37 +0.03 12.80 0.00 -0.31 -0.01 21.35 Provides Resources 4.66% 0.00 +0.50 +0.04 10.09 0.01 +0.33 +0.06 4.37 0.01 -0.33 -0.04 5.07 Safety Policy 0.01% 0.00 -0.37 -0.03 8.39 0.00 -0.33 -0.05 3.36 0.00 -0.88 -0.24 1.69 Third Person 5.09% 0.00 +0.29 +0.01 19.10 0.01 +0.39 +0.03 13.52 0.00 -0.10 -0.00 19.79 Sycophancy Framing 3.18% 0.00 -0.10 -0.01 12.78 0.01 -0.66 -0.07 7.77 0.00 +0.75 +0.05 11.72 Indirectness 14.88% 0.01 -0.66 -0.04 11.94 0.02 -0.53 -0.05 10.99 0.01 +0.18 +0.01 19.25 Validation 9.42% 0.00 +0.29 +0.01 21.47 0.01 -0.01 -0.00 19.48 0.00 +0.32 +0.01 20.21 

Block Name Prop TM TG CM 

MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR MAV r β HMR 

32