Title: Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem: Evolutionary Developments, Challenges, and Future Directions

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2607.24589v1

Published Time: Tue, 28 Jul 2026 02:12:36 GMT

Number of Pages: 39

Markdown Content:
# ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND INNOVATION ECOSYSTEM :EVOLUTIONARY DEVELOPMENTS , C HALLENGES , AND FUTURE 

# DIRECTIONS 

A P REPRINT 

Zhimin Zhang *1 , Chengzhen Ma 2,1 , Jia Chai 1, Rongxin Zhan 1, Huansheng Ning 3,4 , Lingfeng Mao 3, Dan Zhang 1, and Suiping Jiang 11Beijing Institute of Computer Technology and Applications, Beijing 100854, China 

> 2

School of Cyberspace Science and Technology, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China 

> 3

School of Computer and Communication Engineering, University of Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing 100083, China 

> 4

Beijing Engineering Research Center for Cyberspace Data Analysis and Applications, Beijing 100083, China July 28, 2026 

# ABSTRACT 

The development of the Innovative Ecosystem (IE) presents a new paradigm for economic integration, collaborative advancement, and shared achievements. The rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI) has sig-nificantly accelerated the global processes of digitization, informatization, and intelligence. Exploring how AI can leverage inherent characteristics to influence the development trajectory of IE is a topic that warrants further investigation. Given AI’s increasing prominence and role within IE, the paper analyzes this new form, examining both AI’s unique contributions to IE and its potential challenges. Firstly, the paper synthesizes the conceptual frameworks surrounding IE, decomposing them into manifestations in physical, social, and thinking spaces. Furthermore, the concept of Artificial Intelli-gence IE (AIIE) is introduced from a spatial perspective, with an exploration of the characteristics AI contributes to IE. Subsequently, the paper employs an evolutionary perspective to analyze the roles provided by AI during different development periods of AIIE. The paper then verifies the feasibility, effectiveness, and rationality of the AIIE’s definition and analyzes AIIE development from an evolutionary perspective using enterprise development examples. Finally, acknowledging AI’s inherent limitations, the paper examines potential challenges facing AIIE in the future from four perspectives, aiming to identify new research avenues for the further development of AIIE. 

Keywords Artificial Intelligence · Innovation Ecosystem · Innovative Evolutionary Development · Innovation Network ·

Value Co-Creation 

# 1 Introduction 

Innovation Ecosystem (IE) is an advanced network that includes participants such as governments, academic institutions, and innovation companies, as well as external environments like culture, law, and education, all aimed at fostering technological and business model innovation. These participants interact with the external environment, influencing each other and facilitating innovation through resource sharing, knowledge exchange, and collaborative cooperation (Mercier-Laurent [2020]). As globalization deepens, IE has significantly contributed to sustainable global development. Furthermore, the ongoing evolution of IE has led many participants to recognize that, in light of current trends, a balance of cooperation and competition can drive mutually beneficial innovation and value enhancement. The advancement of information technology, particularly Artificial Intelligence (AI), has accelerated the global processes of digitization, virtualization, and intelligence, fostering the ubiquitous connection and deep integration of physical 

> ∗

Corresponding author (zhangzhimin@uest.edu.gr). arXiv:2607.24589v1 [cs.AI] 27 Jul 2026 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

space, social space, thinking space, and cyberspace (Ning et al. [2018]). From preset rules and logical reasoning to powerful computing and self-learning capabilities, AI has not only enhanced the automation of digital processes but also profoundly impacted fields such as healthcare, education, finance, and transportation. Ongoing attention and exploration in AI will continue to drive technological breakthroughs and expand applications. Additionally, AI has improved cross-domain collaboration, optimized supply chains for demand allocation, and enhanced international interactions. Consequently, the interplay between AI and globalization has significantly contributed to economic integration and market expansion. The unprecedented progress and changes brought by AI have laid a strong foundation for IE’s digital transformation, driving its rapid growth and facilitating collaborative development. As AI’s role within IE continues to expand, participants’ decisions will increasingly be shaped by AI, potentially altering the dominant positions of both. However, if this technology is not effectively utilized or controlled, IE may fail to develop as envisioned. Consequently, some studies have begun to explore AI’s role in IE, particularly its remarkable contributions to assisted decision-making, cross-domain collaboration, and value co-creation. Studies on AI-assisted IE are still in their infancy, lacking a unified, recognized, and comprehensive definition, and the existing literature on this topic is also inconsistent (Roundy and Asllani [2024]). This ambiguity hampers efforts to identify the emerging IE’s characteristics and effectively describe how it uniquely contributes to sustainable global development in the rapidly iterating and evolving era of AI. Moreover, current research often focuses on the impact and role of AI on IE with a certain development scale from the perspectives of participant (including external environment) composition, resource sharing, and innovative cooperation. However, IE at different developmental periods varies in basic conditions, environmental factors, task orientations, and value goals. As a result, current studies tend to overlook the dynamic changes in AI demand throughout different periods of IE development. Given the current lack of detailed descriptions, this paper breaks down the existing descriptions of IE into manifestations in physical, social, and thinking spaces. Based on the impact of AI-centered cyberspace in these three spaces, a conceptual description of AIIE is summarized, and its unique characteristics are analyzed. Due to the insufficient review of AI’s dynamic impact on the development of IE (Matt et al. [2021]), the paper categorizes the development periods of AIIE into startup, growth, and maturity from an evolutionary perspective. It explores, elaborates, and summarizes the unique roles and requirements of AI at each period. Subsequently, drawing on the development experience of the medical company Owkin, the paper empirically demonstrates the rationality of the AIIE concept’s proposal and analysis and its evolutionary development. Additionally, the paper acknowledges technological development’s dual impact and further examines the potential challenges and risks that AI poses to IE development. The main contributions of the paper include: • To address the insufficient conceptualization of AI and IE integration in existing studies, the paper breaks down the existing descriptions of IE from the perspectives of physical, social, and thinking spaces. After analyzing the impact of AI-dominated cyberspace on the three spaces, a conceptual description of AIIE is proposed and compared with similar research from multiple perspectives. Moreover, based on the unique performance of AI in seven aspects, the paper summarises and analyses the prominent characteristics of AIIE in comparison to traditional IE. • In response to the current lack of analysis regarding AI’s specific role at different AIIE development periods, the paper adopts an evolutionary perspective to examine the development patterns and demand characteristics of AIIE across the startup, growth, and maturity periods, highlighting the key roles that AI provides and the potential impacts in entails. • To enhance understanding, verify feasibility, and demonstrate the application value, the paper summarises the development of the medical company Owkin as an example to validate AIIE. On the one hand, the paper analyzes the rationality of the AIIE concept from the perspectives of participant compositions, cooperative-competitive relationships, and ultimate goals. On the other hand, the paper demonstrates the feasibility of describing the unique role of AI in AIIE development’s different periods by examining the changes in Owkin’s business focus during the development process. • As an answer to technological development’s dual impact, the paper summarizes the potential challenges and risks that AI poses to AIIE development in terms of interpretability, energy conservation, fairness, and harmony, and analyzes future development directions and opportunities for AIIE in these four areas. The paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, a summary of concepts related to IE from a spatial perspective is presented, followed by an analysis of the differences between AIIE and traditional IE from seven perspectives after refining AIIE’s concept. Section 3 describes the unique roles and capabilities that AI contributes to AIIE development at various periods, including the control adaptation ability and unique creative ability in the startup period, the cross-domain communication ability and the collaborative decision-making ability in the growth period, and the decentralized 2Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Table 1: Summary of IE’s Definition and Description from Physical, Social, and Thinking Spaces Definition and description Concept Physical space Social space Thinking space IE (Mercier-Laurent [2020]) Companies, research institutes, governments, educational institutions, technology, and startups/small/medium-sized enterprises Interaction and influence -Smart product IE (Kahle et al. [2020]) Companies with different com-plementary technological capa-bilities Integration through col-laborative development efforts -Manufacturing IE (Reynolds and Uygun [2018]) Participants and entities Collaboration and com-bination respective re-sources Foster technological devel-opment and innovation Industry 4.0 IE (Ben-itez et al. [2020]) Digital technologies, informa-tion systems, and processing technologies Interconnection A high degree of capability interdependence and tech-nological complementarity Business IE (Paasi et al. [2023]) Organizations and individuals Interaction The organic foundation of the business world ability and the privacy security protection ability in the maturity period. Based on Owkin’s development experience, Section 4 illustrates the feasibility, effectiveness, and rationality of the AIIE’s conceptual definition and development focus at different periods through case analysis. Section 5 addresses the potential challenges and risks that AI poses to AIIE, focusing on interpretability, energy conservation, fairness, and harmony, and analyzes future development trends and opportunities in these areas. Section 6 concludes the entire paper with a summary of key points. 

# 2 Definition and Characteristics of AIIE 

2.1 Definition of AIIE 

IE is analogous to a natural ecosystem, highlighting the interdependence of various participants who cooperate, share, and communicate to adapt to technological advancements, market changes, and policy adjustments through evolution. In such interdependent relationships, cooperation and healthy competition are crucial, guided by ultimate goals of achievement. Influenced by factors such as field, scenario, and scope, IE has given rise to several related concepts, including business ecosystem (Adner [2006]), industry 4.0 IE (Matt et al. [2021], Benitez et al. [2020]), and smart product IE (Kahle et al. [2020]). AI is crucial for data analysis, predictive modeling, and operational optimization, serving as a powerful driving force of digital transformation. Under the influence of AI technology, system-level concepts such as Cyber-Physical-Social Systems (CPSS) (Zeng et al. [2020]), General Cyberspace (GC) (Ning et al. [2018]), and PhiNet of Things (PoT) (Ning et al. [2020]) have been successively proposed to emphasize the optimization and improvement of traditional systems through enhanced productivity. A comprehensive analysis of these concepts underscores the profound impact of cyberspace, as represented by AI, on traditional physical, social, and even thinking spaces. Physical space is the foundation of spatial factors, mainly composed of spatial entities (such as people and objects) and corresponding environments. Social space considers the social attributes, behaviors, and interrelationships of entities. Consequently, thinking space primarily processes related brain activities or observes reactions in the realm of thinking. As a manifestation of the ecosystem, IE can also be represented in three spaces and will be influenced by AI-oriented cyberspace. For IE, its manifestation in physical space is compositions of participants; in social space, it is the manifestation of cooperative-competitive relationships; and in thinking space, it is manifested as ultimate goals. Based on this classification, the paper decomposes the existing concepts of IE and summarizes them in Table 1. 3Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

2.1.1 Compositions of Participants in Physical Space 

Participants define the composition and scale of IE, representing IE’s concrete manifestation in the physical space. Startups and technology companies with project experience are vital components that enhance industry competitiveness and facilitate information resource exchange. To boost innovation capabilities, industry research institutes, educa-tional institutions, and higher education entities with cutting-edge knowledge and an exploratory spirit invigorate the development of IE. Given AI’s disruptive and uncertain nature, effective regulation is essential for maintaining IE’s vitality and healthy operation. Governments and decision-making bodies play a crucial role in providing such regulatory support. Compared to mandatory regulation, dynamic and sandbox regulatory ways offer greater flexibility for AI development within IE (Fenwick et al. [2018]). To ensure the successful execution of key activities like innovative research and technological development, venture capital, private equity, and angel investments serve as important funding sources. Additionally, incubators can help reduce innovation costs, facilitate achievement transformation, and enhance system efficiency by providing venue, infrastructure, and service support. Finally, target users are also a critical component of IE. Their experiences and feedback can significantly influence IE’s future direction, aiding the ecosystem in adjusting and making decisions that align with market and social development needs. With the addition of AI, this technology can act as a decision-maker or technical advisor, assisting in various decision-making processes rather than being limited to human participants in the physical space. By leveraging AI technology, IE can process and analyze vast amounts of data, providing valuable insights in areas such as development trends, resource allocation, and personalized recommendations. Combining these suggestions, participants such as governments and institutions can make more informed and comprehensive development decisions. With the advancement of Generative AI (GAI), large language models like OpenAI ChatGPT, Amazon Lex, and Google Dialogflow can perform complex interactive functions, including creative writing, answering questions, and content generation, further enhancing innovation capabilities within the ecosystem. 

2.1.2 Cooperative-Competitive Relationships in Social Space 

The second element in describing IE is cooperative-competitive relationships, which reflect its attributes in the social space. Achieving systemic development is challenging for any single participant. Thus, cooperation is crucial for fostering innovation and is a key focus of current research on interdependence. Participants can achieve high capability dependence and technological complementarity through knowledge sharing, resource integration, and information exchange, which helps reduce duplicate investments and lower costs (Benitez et al. [2020]). Moreover, healthy competition enhances the capabilities of IE. Different participants may compete for resources, technology, and users within similar market environments, which is conducive to driving ecosystem vitality, improving work efficiency, and stimulating innovation while enhancing product and service quality. Competition is relative, and competitors may also find opportunities for cooperation to address industry challenges, such as standardization and rule-making jointly. In both cooperation and competition, it is essential for participants to maintain positive relationships and avoid actions that undermine the rights of others or lead to impulsive decisions (Kahle et al. [2020], Nambisan and Baron [2013]). Additionally, regulatory measures, including policies, regulations, and ordinances, can significantly impact participant relationships. For instance, AI development policies may encourage cross-domain collaboration, while antitrust laws are designed to protect healthy competition. In terms of cooperative-competitive relationships, the application of AI can eliminate geographical limitations and industry barriers, fostering deeper collaboration among participants from various fields in the social space. Additionally, the development of General AI (AGI) has endowed this technology with the ability to perform diverse tasks, learn multiple knowledge, and adapt to different environments, similar to human capabilities. From a cooperative perspective, AI facilitates the expansion of IE by attracting diverse participants for collaborative innovation and strengthening relationships through technology integration and data sharing. Conversely, from a competitive perspective, AI enhances the efficiency and capabilities of participants, intensifying the competitive relationship and driving IE to accelerate its innovation processes. 4Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

2.1.3 Ultimate Goals in Thinking Space 

The definition and description in Table 1 highlight another essential element, which is that the ultimate goal of IE is to achieve value co-creation, reflecting the collective aspirations of participants in the thinking space. In terms of value, IE not only seeks economic win-win results but also aims to enhance and enrich relationships. The continuous development of both economic and relational value facilitates the attraction of additional funds, technology, and market share, thereby boosting the competitiveness of IE and establishing a virtuous cycle of development. Beyond the direct value mentioned (explicit associated value), the development goals of IE also encompass indirect value (implicit associated value), specifically dynamic capability and innovation capability (Sun et al. [2022]). The influence of these four dimensions of value is subtle yet critical for the sustainable development and capacity enhancement of IE (Sjödin [2019]). Furthermore, using AI will also impact IE’s ultimate goals, shaping its direction in the thinking space. The complexity of AI makes its decision-making process less transparent to participants and accompanied by uncertainty. In fields such as healthcare and finance, where transparency is crucial, such black-box decisions can lead to issues related to trust, compliance, and accountability. A lack of trust may also result in perceived unfairness in AI decision-making, which could undermine both internal and external cooperative-competitive relationships within IE, posing a potentially significant threat to the overall security and stability of the ecosystem. Therefore, With the addition of AI to IE, responsibility capability emerges as the fifth-dimensional goal of IE’s development. Additionally, achieving IE’s goals can have a reciprocal effect on the composition of participants. By expanding the ecosystem’s scale and increasing its diversity, these goals can further strengthen and develop cooperative-competitive relationships, contributing to the ecosystem’s sustainable development. Thus, the compositions of participants, cooperative-competitive relationships, and ultimate goals together form the three essential components of IE. The impact of AI on these three aspects in IE can also be described in Fig. 1. 

Figure 1: The Impact of AI on IE from Spatial Dimensions Based on the analysis of concepts and definitions related to IE, the paper introduces a description of AIIE. AIIE is a derivative concept of traditional IE and equally applies to the three essential elements discussed. However, unlike traditional IE, AIIE is dominated by AI technologies, which introduce changes and impacts on these elements. 5Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

AIIE is a sustainable digital community driven by AI technology, dedicated to providing auxiliary decision-making capabilities, overcoming temporal-spatial barriers in a decentralized manner, and achieving five-dimensional ultimate goals that are competitive, benign, dynamic, innovative, and transparent. In this concept, the emphasis is placed on the role positioning of AI and its unique role in the three spaces corresponding to IE. In AIIE, AI is not only an advanced technology but also the backbone of building a digital, informative, and intelligent ecosystem. In the physical space, AI-assisted decision-making can reduce dependence on professional institutions, expert knowledge, and specialized skills, and enhance the ability to process, analyze, and respond quickly to information. In the social space, AI’s decentralized management can further accelerate resource sharing, break down physical temporal-spatial limitations, and heterogeneous information barriers. In the thinking space, AIIE is not limited to achieving the goals of traditional IE but also aims to improve transparency to enhance its responsibility capability. In the above definition, AIIE also highlights two other key points. Firstly, the concept defines sustainability, indicating that AI’s role will evolve at different periods of IE development. Secondly, the ultimate form of AIIE is to create a digital community that fosters a high degree of inclusiveness and recognition for diverse innovation and development. Although research has begun to propose AIIE and related descriptions, it remains at a relatively general level of description for the ecosystem. In contrast, the paper maps AIIE to four spaces, providing a more comprehensive explanation of its characteristics. To highlight the novelty of the proposed AIIE, the paper compares the concept with descriptions in other papers from six aspects: core definition, AI status, collaborative way, spatial range, resource integration, and target, and summarizes them in Table 2. 

2.2 Characteristics of AIIE 

AI, as the core driving force of technological development, exhibits unique and powerful multidimensional characteris-tics. These characteristics not only reflect the evolution logic of technology itself but also meet the core requirements of modern society for intelligent systems. The design, implementation, and application of AI depend directly on the form and quality of the data. Compared to traditional single-function models, the heterogeneity of AI enables it to integrate diverse data forms, ensure continuous system optimisation in dynamic environments through its learning capabilities, and avoid knowledge solidification. In addition, adaptability refers to the ability of AI to respond flexibly to uncertainty and boundary-blurring problems, thereby providing opportunities for cross-domain task migration. The above characteristics are concentrated in the process of AI training and testing. In practical applications, AI has also demonstrated its unique expressive power. The decentralization capability is beginning to receive attention and improve system robustness and privacy security, while risk management mechanisms reduce decision risks through relevant constraints. Furthermore, personalized services reflect AI’s precise response to differentiated needs, while efficient resource management capabilities are crucial to achieving sustainable development. The above seven characteristics support and complement each other, conforming not only to the objective development law of technological evolution but also responding to the expectations of trustworthy, efficient, and humanized AI. These characteristics constitute the core pillars of the AI system’s rationality and also serve as the direction for future AI development efforts. Therefore, the paper analyzes the content of relevant literature, summarizes and infers the differences between traditional IE and AIIE in these dimensions, and summarizes them in Table 3. 

Heterogeneity. With the development of AI, this technology can now achieve low-latency, high-quality semantic hierarchical communication by processing heterogeneous data, such as text, audio, images, and videos (Wang and Bi [2021]). This characteristic facilitates the employ of AI to enhance information sharing, break down language, regional, and cultural barriers to communication, and promote cooperation among participants within the same system. Therefore, AIIE can overcome temporal-spatial barriers, unite participants with diverse backgrounds, and facilitate communication-based on shared goals, thereby enriching regional characteristics. 

Sustainability. AI is beginning to focus on learning from continuous data streams or task sequences and adaptively developing more complex knowledge and skills over time. This ability to generate and self-generate enables AIIE not only to focus on handling new tasks but also to maintain a memory of history and effectively continue learning when resources are available. 

Adaptivity. From the perspective of complexity science, if IE is conceptualized as a complex adaptive system, its evolution and development can be more fully understood (Yannier et al. [2024]). The adaptability of AI enables it to cope with diverse backgrounds, which is challenging to achieve in traditional environments. AIIE will have the ability to dynamically adjust its behavior, models, or strategies in response to environmental changes, data updates, or target requirements. This characteristic enables AIIE to maintain sensitivity and robustness in complex, uncertain, and volatile market environments. 6Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

> Table 2: Comparison of Proposed AIIE With Other Related Concepts Concept  Core definition  AI status  Collaborative way  Spatial range  Resource integration  Target AIIE (Sun et al. [2022]) The interdependent network of participants involved in the de-velopment of AI Participation  Dependent on net-work relationships Overcoming geo-graphical barriers Network configuration resources Maintain network stabil-ity and dynamic develop-ment AIIE (Ceccagnoli et al. [2012], Kühl et al. [2020]) Integrating complementary re-sources through open collabo-ration to improve AI innova-tion efficiency and effective-ness Dominant  Proactive open col-laboration Overcoming geo-graphical barriers Complementary  re-source integration (such as  technology,  data, capital) The efficiency and effec-tiveness of AI innovation AIIE (Sarker et al. [2012]) Realizing the value output of AI innovation through open collaboration  and  resource sharing among entities Dominant  Open collaboration for resource contri-bution Overcoming geo-graphical barriers The direct value output of resource sharing Realize value co-creation Entrepreneurial IE (Roundy and Asllani [2024]) Local actors and factors that coordinate  and  support  AI technology  creation  within specific geographic regions Participation  Localized collabo-ration Restricted to spe-cific  geographic regions Dependent on regional resources Promote the implementa-tion of regional AI tech-nology  and  economic growth Data  ecosystem (Toorajipour et al. [2024]) A complex network composed of interconnected entities to create, exchange, and utilize data, jointly creating value Participation  Create,  exchange, and utilize data Overcoming geo-graphical barriers Data and cross-domain knowledge are strategic assets and critical re-sources Realize  new  forms  of data-driven  value  cre-ation AI  en-trepreneurial ecosystem (Roundy  and Asllani [2024]) The  location  where  en-trepreneurs and organizations seek to create AI technology within this ecosystem holds significant importance Participation  Location based at-tributes and sharing of attribute related resources A fertile environ-ment for pursuing AI innovation Financial  resources (such as venture capital and  financing)  and human capital (such as knowledge and research and development) Emphasize the richness of products, technology, and local environment AIIE (Ours)  A sustainable data community centered around AI technol-ogy Dominant  AI  assisted decision-making Overcoming geo-graphical barriers Decentralized sharing  Value co-creation goals that are competitive, be-nign, dynamic, innova-tive, and transparent

7Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Table 3: Comparison of Characteristics Between Traditional IE and AIIE 

Characteristics Traditional IE AIIE Heterogeneity Traditional IE is similar to a cluster, which rep-resents the critical mass necessary for achieving extraordinary competitive success in a specific field and location. Participants in the ecosystem share similar backgrounds, cultures, and other character-istics. Traditional IE consists of Silicon Valley and technology parks dedicated to studying regional competitiveness and economic benefits, demon-strating co-location and regional focus (Porter et al. [1998]). Specific geographic locations no longer define the boundaries of AIIE but by collective functions. Par-ticipants exhibit diversity in terms of background, culture, and other aspects. AIIE comprises compa-nies such as Apple and Google, which utilise AI to facilitate efficient information exchange. It is committed to using AI to achieve interconnectivity and demonstrates collaborative attributes. Sustainability Traditional IE primarily relies on expert knowledge and experience for learning. While this way offers good transparency, it also incurs high learning costs and significant subjectivity. The ability of AI to generate or self-generate has become the main driving force for IE’s sustainable development (Boyer [2020]). Adaptivity Strategy and process adjustments require manual interventions such as research, analysis, and judg-ment. Data integration and processing are rela-tively slow, with a long update cycle. AI can influence the innovation capability of IE through digital adaptability (perceptual adaptabil-ity, social adaptability, and production adaptability) (Gao et al. [2025]). Decentralization Existing IE typically relies on centralized interme-diaries to record behavior, and a highly centralized hierarchical structure can result in unfairness for more dispersed regions to benefit (MANDYCH et al. [2023]). AI can achieve service discovery and recommenda-tion in a distributed manner, ensuring that IE has higher scalability and maintainability (Gao et al. [2018]). Risk assessment Relying on historical data, research findings, and expert experience for analysis and judgment offers high reliability but lacks real-time and dynamic adjustment capabilities, which may be constrained by the limitations of experience. AI can be adapted to analyze the risk level of col-laborative innovation projects and serves as an effective mechanism for detecting and even pre-dicting potential innovation risks in IE (Abreu et al. [2018]). The continuity of this analysis process, coupled with the involvement of strate-gic management and the use of detection tools, can identify weaknesses, alleviate decomposition, and implement improvements and updates to IE (MANDYCH et al. [2023]). Personalization Personalization is somewhat limited, typically of-fering tailored services based on basic attributes like user profiles and regional distribution, which makes it challenging to address more complex needs. AI can help AIIE undergo a series of transforma-tions and upgrades tailored to individual needs based on data analysis and personalized interac-tions (Secundo et al. [2024]), adapting to the flexi-ble and changing market demands and meeting the needs of target groups (Zhang et al. [2023]). This is key to achieving the digital revolution (Jones et al. [2024]). Resource allocation The process tends to be cumbersome, requiring numerous manual operations and approvals, which can be easily constrained by organizational struc-ture and established procedures. AI can be employed for collaborative collection, sharing, and exploration of a large amount of infor-mation, data, and knowledge resources that support IE dynamics (Mercier-Laurent [2020]), blurring the boundaries of resource inflow and outflow in IE through an open innovation model (Corrales-Garay et al. [2024]). 

8Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Decentralization . Breaking the hierarchical structure of centralized development is conducive to promoting the introduction of technological innovation achievements to various regions, thereby breaking geographical limitations (Sánchez-Obando et al. [2024]). According to the research results of graph theory (Shipilov et al. [2023]), the development of IE has three prototypes, namely centralized, adaptive, and decentralized. Decentralization has opened a more equitable door for the development of AI (Montes and Goertzel [2019]). By dispersing calculations, data, and decisions among numerous participants, AIIE will achieve significant improvements in reliability, robustness, efficiency, fault tolerance, response time, and other aspects, thereby breaking through the bottleneck of excessive concentration. 

Risk assessment . With the continuous expansion of IE’s scale, the innovation brought by existing resources and the diversity of participants involved has posed management challenges, especially in risk management (Wang and Bi [2021]). AI offers a novel way to risk assessment in IE. Through dynamic risk perception, real-time decision intervention, and predictive governance, AIIE is able to continuously report system stability. 

Personalization. Personalization involves providing services or products tailored to the needs of the IE target audience (Chandra et al. [2022]). However, there is currently a lack of a paradigm to achieve open innovation throughout the life cycle for this characteristic (Zheng et al. [2019]). AI can enhance the personalized experience of target groups by analyzing massive amounts of data and facilitating interaction and understanding. In the context of constantly evolving personalized demands, the addition of AI enables IE to transform and upgrade towards a personalized mode, thereby better adapting to the changing market environment and the needs of its target group. 

Resource allocation. IE can be seen as a resource allocation system that helps mitigate the risks associated with IE degradation by creating, allocating, and mobilizing resources (Shi and Shi [2022]). By combining various creative approaches, such as dynamic modelling and game theory, AI can provide new ideas for optimal resource allocation and control of IE (Duan et al. [2023]). In addition, as data becomes a new key resource, it is of great significance to consider a reasonable, efficient, and complementary resource management model in data-driven AIIE. It is precisely because AI has unique advantages compared to other technologies that AIIE has stronger capabilities to collect, process, and manage resources compared to traditional IE. This has enabled AIIE to further optimize, supplement, and upgrade traditional IE in terms of compositions of participants, cooperative-competitive relationships, and ultimate goals. 

# 3 Evolutionary Developments of AIIE 

Moore [1993, 1996] believed that the evolution of IE follows a programmed lifecycle and proposed four stages of IE development, namely birth, expansion, leadership, and self-renewal (or death). Santos et al. [2022] considered that the development of IE can be seen as four stages: inception, launching, growth, and maturity. According to the research results of Thomas and Autio [2015], the development of IE is divided into three stages: initiation, motivation, and optimization. When IE is in a leadership state, it is necessary to synchronously consider how to update the system to avoid heading towards death. Therefore, based on the above research results, the paper divides the evolution of AIIE into three stages, namely the startup period, the growth period, and the mature period, and explores the unique role of AI in IE from an evolutionary perspective. Analyzing the development of the ecosystem from this perspective highlights the importance of dynamic adaptability, where species continuously adjust through natural selection to survive environmental changes. Similarly, the composi-tions of participants, cooperative-competitive relationships, and ultimate goals within AIIE are not static. They will be constantly adjusted to adapt to changes in the development market and technological environment to achieve sustained progress. Additionally, due to the differences in development needs at different periods, AIIE’s emphasis on evolution will also give it the corresponding characteristics mentioned in Table 3. Current studies tend to focus on analyzing the final development form of the ecosystem, emphasizing its relevant attributes and relationships while overlooking the dynamic changes that occur within AIIE throughout its evolutionary process. Additionally, the distinct roles AI plays at different periods of this evolution are often neglected. To address this gap, the paper examines the development pattern and demand characteristics of AIIE during three critical periods (i.e., startup, growth, and maturity) from an evolutionary perspective. This way explores the unique roles and potential impacts of AI at each period. Viewing AI’s contributions through the lens of evolutionary theory provides valuable insights into the adaptability, dynamism, and diversity of AIIE, offering a foundation for predicting future development trends. The priorities of this analysis across the three critical periods is illustrated in Fig. 2. 9Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Figure 2: Three Critical Periods and Priorities of AIIE Development 

3.1 The Performance of AIIE in the Startup Period 

In the startup period, all participants of IE need to have a common understanding of product and service requirements to smoothly carry out necessary cooperation to achieve common goals (Moore [1993]). Although AIIE at this period has some uncertainty, it still needs to find a way to form a coherent whole (Markham et al. [2010]). Therefore, AIIE’s primary development goal during the startup period is to overcome the challenges faced by newcomers, utilize its inherent advantages to achieve a positive willingness to cooperate, and achieve phased common goals for rapid growth. However, during this period, AIIE may encounter a range of risk factors across multiple dimensions, including 10 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

policy, finance, law, organizational structure, technology, and operations. These risks can undermine development progress and, in some cases, lead to severe setbacks or even catastrophic failure. At this period, AIIE often operates with relatively limited resources, including funding, talent, and technology, and is typically exposed to an uncertain market environment. The combination of scarce resources and fluctuating demand leaves AIIE vulnerable, lacking the capacity for sufficient buffering or adaptive responses to potential risks. Additionally, AIIE at this stage may lack a mature organizational structure, management systems, and established processes, which can result in inefficiencies in decision-making, poor internal communication, inadequate emergency management capabilities, and weaknesses in risk identification, assessment, and governance. Moreover, this instability can also shake the confidence of participants in cooperation, which is not conducive to forming common insights and achieving benign cooperation in AIIE. To address these challenges, it is crucial to leverage AI’s potential to enhance the resilience and adaptability of the ecosystem, thereby improving its overall stability, robustness, and capacity for long-term growth. In a relatively stable environment, AIIE is more conducive to maintaining stability among all parties involved, thereby accelerating the growth of its system towards a common goal. The contribution of AI in elastic settings enables AIIE to have good risk management capabilities and become an effective tool to ensure the stable operation of AIIE. Furthermore, AIIE at this period is likely to face challenges related to technological innovation and market competition, often lacking the requisite expertise and experience to navigate these pressures effectively. This situation is not conducive to the rapid development of AIIE. On the one hand, AIIE, which is in the early period, has a relatively small scale, and these risks can easily lead to its acquisition, merger, or even bankruptcy. On the other hand, the initial cooperation relationship with AIIE is fragile and straightforward. These challenges can lower the confidence of the participants, even leading to withdrawal of investment, cancellation of cooperation, and further exacerbating the development difficulties of AIIE. To this end, AI can play a pivotal role in boosting innovation, creativity, and imagination within the ecosystem, injecting personalized characteristics into AIIE. Through advanced technological research and rapid learning, AIIE can maintain its unique competitive advantage, enabling it to establish itself in a competitive environment and overcome the inherent limitations of early-period development. 

3.1.1 The Elastic Adaptability of AIIE 

The rapid evolution of market and social environments aligns closely with technological advancements, necessitating careful consideration of potential challenges and the formulation of innovative risk management strategies (Endregard and Nystuen [2022]). AIIE needs to be elastic from the beginning of its design, construction, and formation, especially when relying on social technology and in the process of digitalization, integration, and globalization (Pacaux-Lemoine et al. [2023], Belhadi et al. [2024]). This characteristic encompasses AIIE’s ability to swiftly assess, identify, warn, adapt, withstand, recover, monitor, and maintain normal operations amid various internal and external disturbances (Chacon-Chamorro et al. [2024], Baryannis et al. [2019]), whether arising from natural disasters or human-made incidents (Samaei [2024]). During the startup period of AIIE, it is crucial to quickly overcome the inherent disadvantages of being a newcomer, firmly establish a strong foothold in a complex hazardous environment, and possibly mitigate the negative impacts of various unstable factors (Singh et al. [2024a]). Frequent disruptive events can easily hinder the normal functioning of AIIE, potentially stalling progress and destabilizing cooperative-competitive relationships (Dohale et al. [2024]). Furthermore, reliance solely on traditional participants may prove insufficient for effectively managing and sustaining all aspects of the ecosystem. In comparison to the mature period, AIIE at this period confronts numerous challenges and risks, including political conflicts, anti-globalization sentiments (Wang and Pan [2022]), resource shortages, economic recessions (Nayal et al. [2024]), market fluctuations, natural disasters, global epidemics (Romero and Stahre [2021], Zheng et al. [2022]), technological failures, and malicious attacks (Priebe et al. [2023]). Firstly, AIIE at the startup period typically has limited resources, encompassing funding, manpower, and materials (Le and Behl [2023]). Any fluctuations in operations can pose significant threats to AIIE’s survival. Elasticity allows AIIE to quickly adjust and optimize its operational strategies under resource constraints, ensuring a steady supply of critical resources and minimizing costs (Wong et al. [2024]). Secondly, AIIE in this period often operates within a rapidly changing or emerging market environment, where business demands, collaborative partnerships, technological trends, and even ultimate goals are shifted quickly. Elasticity enables AIIE to adapt to these changes, capitalize on new opportunities, and mitigate the risk of being overshadowed by market dynamics. Thirdly, establishing cooperative-competitive relationships can be particularly challenging for AIIE in its startup period. Elasticity aids in building a stable and reliable social network, enhancing trust and boosting the collaborative confidence 11 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Table 4: Main Descriptions of System Elasticity      

> Ref Main description Yu et al. [2024] Elasticity is a system attribute derived from the interactions and coordination of its constituent systems within the architectural framework. Massel et al. [2021] Elasticity refers to a system’s ability to return to equilibrium following temporary disturbances. Mayar et al. [2022] Elasticity is the ability of a system to respond to unexpected changes through passive or active feedback mechanisms, allowing it to restore its state or transition to another suitable form. Zohuri et al. [2022] Business elasticity refers to an organization’s ability to swiftly adapt to unexpected disruptions, ensuring that workflows continue uninterrupted while safeguarding personnel, resources, assets, and overall operations.

of other participants. Additionally, an elastic way helps maintain service quality, thereby stabilizing relationships by improving the overall reputation. Finally, as AIIE grows, it must continuously learn and adapt. Elasticity facilitates ongoing optimization of development strategies, bolstering overall competitiveness and resilience in the face of challenges, risks, and crises (Wecken et al. [2023]). It can be seen that elasticity is essential for startup period AIIE, as it enables AIIE to survive, grow, and expand in environments characterized by limited resources, instability, and intense competition. Consequently, AIIE in this period should attach great importance to resilience construction, improve overall robustness, scalability, adaptability, resilience, and stability (Wu and Wang [2021], Raju [2024]), meet the survival needs in complex and changing environments (Mao et al. [2021]), take anti vulnerability and agility as core design principles (Simpson et al. [2021]), and be able to maintain synchronization with other participants in unexpected situations (Samadhiya et al. [2023]). Ultimately, this characteristic not only supports the sustained development of AIIE (Rane et al. [2024]) but also influences the speed and likelihood of returning to a stable state following disruptions (Massel et al. [2021]). Currently, there is no standardized definition of elasticity, leading to varied interpretations (Moskalenko et al. [2023]). Table 4 outlines the main descriptions of elasticity. Dubey et al. [2022] highlighted that traditional assumptions of commercial supply chains do not apply to humanitarian supply chains, suggesting that elasticity varies across different AIIEs and may influence various developmental periods (Atwani et al. [2020]). While elasticity often operates unnoticed, it serves as a critical sentinel for the entire ecosystem, ensuring adaptability and responsiveness to changing circumstances (Lichti [2024]). AI provides a promising solution for building and promoting more resilient ecosystems (Belhadi et al. [2022], Schintler and McNeely [2022]), which can improve resilience mechanisms by developing business continuity and perception capabilities (Belhadi et al. [2022], Gupta et al. [2023a]), facilitate more effective resource management (Zamani et al. [2023]), and provide low-cost, high-quality, high-efficiency, and high-level services (Aliahmadi et al. [2022], Ali et al. [2022]). In AIIE, the resilience provided by AI is not limited to a single phase but continuously follows through various lifecycle stages, including preparation, response, resistance, recovery, maintenance, and adaptation (Zamani et al. [2023], Sáez et al. [2024], Maier et al. [2024]). Moreover, alignment between AI (at the technical level) and exploratory learning (at the social level) can strengthen elasticity (Dai et al. [2024]), requiring a balance between optimality and adaptability (Jimenez et al. [2013]). In the face of unexpected disruptions, an elastic AIIE should swiftly identify risks and faults, analyze constraints and pressures, reconfigure operations and commands, and activate emergency management and handling (Modgil et al. [2022]). However, the application of AI to enhance elasticity is still in its early stages and represents a relatively new vision (Usigbe et al. [2024], Patalas-Maliszewska et al. [2024]). Belhadi et al. [2022] proposed an integrated multi-criteria decision-making strategy that employs fuzzy systems, wavelet neural networks, and other methods to support the development of various elastic strategies. Dohale et al. [2024] introduced a support system based on multi-criteria decision-making, utilizing integrated voting analysis hierarchical processes and Bayesian networks to enhance system elasticity. Wong et al. [2024] applied partial least squares structural equation modeling and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) for risk management, aiming to improve the system’s overall elasticity, reconstruction capabilities, and agility. Marshall et al. [2017] developed an adaptive and automated decision system to enhance the inherent elasticity in uncertain environments, primarily within air traffic management. Li et al. [2024] designed a data-centric management framework that identifies and evaluates risks in real-time through knowledge accumulation, enabling the deployment of targeted response strategies to enhance overall elasticity. Tan et al. [2021] utilized honeynet methods to bolster Internet of Things (IoT) security and elasticity, incorporating threat detection and situational awareness functions. Additionally, evolutionary algorithms, neural network frameworks, and other AI technologies have been validated as practical tools for elastic design, predictive analysis, and risk management, optimizing various decision-making processes (Abaku et al. [2024]). 12 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

The above research indicates that AI can offer effective elasticity mechanisms for AIIE. However, such a situation does not imply that the elasticity provided by AI is without flaws. Singh et al. [2024b] suggested that the emergence of unexpected effects is contingent on the transparency afforded to all participants, which is precisely what AI lacks. Furthermore, AI may impose limitations on the operational range of AIIE’s elasticity, leading to potential constraints (Yu et al. [2024]). 

3.1.2 The Unique Creative Ability of AIIE 

A common perception is that AI lacks the ability to think and create (Haase and Hanel [2023]), traits considered uniquely human (Koivisto and Grassini [2023]). However, relying solely on human participants’ wisdom and imagination for innovation has become ineffective, particularly in symbiotic ecosystems like AIIE (Gulya [2023]). Currently, GAI (or creative AI) serves as a crucial technological foundation for exploring creativity in the era of generative wisdom (Fenwick and Jurcys [2023]). This technology has transformed AI’s role from performing data-driven, discriminative tasks to engaging in complex, creative endeavors (Fenwick and Jurcys [2023]), reshaping the human creativity way (Andrews [2023]). GAI integrates various advanced technologies (such as machine learning) to generate novel content (such as text, images, and music) by analyzing patterns in training data (Ooi et al. [2023], Mannuru et al. [2023], Zhou and Lee [2024]). When AIIE outputs original and practical results, this situation indirectly enhances its industry attractiveness, fostering collaboration relationships and attracting external support crucial for overcoming startup limitations (Meilin [2020]). The distinctions between human participants, machines, and disciplines, as well as between formal and informal learning, are increasingly blurring, and GAI will accelerate this trend (Gulya [2023]). Moreover, integrating GAI into AIIE’s innovation process may help mitigate the cognitive limitations of human participants (Sarica and Luo [2023]). ChatGPT and other GAI products enhance search experiences, reshape information generation and presentation, and serve as new entry points for online traffic (Lv [2023]). Guzik et al. [2023] conducted an exploratory survey on ChatGPT’s creative abilities, evaluating this tool through the Torrance Creative Thinking Test. The results indicated that ChatGPT demonstrates fluency, flexibility, and originality, suggesting it can elevate and enhance the creativity of human participants. Haase and Hanel [2023] found no qualitative difference between the creativity produced by AI and that generated by humans, though the processes for idea generation differ. The integration of GAI can expand AIIE’s expressive capabilities and reduce barriers to realizing original ideas, such as skill deficiencies in production (Fox [2018]). However, since creativity likely stems from multiple sources, it is essential to employ appropriate tools for managing the creativity generated by AI (Botega and da Silva [2020]). It is important to recognize that GAI primarily functions as a probabilistic model, lacking the ability to reason or understand (García-Peñalvo et al. [2023]). It relies heavily on extensive existing knowledge and data for training to identify potential patterns or structures (Bozkurt [2023]). Consequently, its outputs may carry risks of plagiarism and/or copyright infringement (Cooper [2023]). Yin et al. [2021] discovered that a Transformer model trained using traditional early stopping criteria often produces repetitive patterns, leading to low output quality and originality. In later training stages, the model tends to overfit, resulting in reproductions of input segments. Zerouati and Zerouati [2024] noted that while ChatGPT can enhance creativity by providing new ideas, thoughts, and insights, it may also hinder originality by guiding the creation of derivative or non-original works. Májovsk `y et al. [2023] confirmed that current AI systems can generate entirely fabricated scientific papers. Additionally, GAI is likely to utilize both human-created and self-generated content for future training, potentially creating a feedback loop between generative data and public data. Martínez et al. [2023] found that when trained on such mixed data, the quality and diversity of generated model output images decreased over time, further indicating that merging AI-generated data could negatively impact future model iterations. The debate surrounding the protection of AI-generated creative works remains contentious, with three primary perspec-tives emerging. Firstly, some researchers argue that intellectual property laws were created to regulate works produced by humans and Human Intelligence (HI), asserting that AI does not fall within this scope and therefore cannot be considered as a co-author (Mih˘ ail˘ a [2023], He [2024]). Secondly, other researchers advocate for rediscovering concepts related to innovation, creativity, and originality, including protections for AI-generated outputs. Lastly, some suggest that existing laws, regulations, and orders should be leveraged to navigate the complexities surrounding AI-generated works (Ribeiro [2020]). According to the current development trajectory, AI will make the creative output forms of AIIE increasingly complex, so accelerating the formulation of copyright protection laws is an effective compromise. Determining the ownership and authorship of AI-generated works presents significant challenges (Mazzi [2024], Eshraghian [2020]), yet it remains a critical issue within copyright law. The judicial interpretation of such creativity and works varies, resulting in a lack of unified definitions and considerable ambiguity (Linke and Petrlík [2020]). Nevertheless, evaluating creativity is essential for assessing whether GAI is protected (Lu et al. [2024]). 13 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Moreover, for derivative works (improvements to existing works), the identification rights of their authors and the division of ownerships also need to be taken seriously (Díaz-Noci [2023]). Therefore, establishing clear standards for originality is crucial in determining the legal status of AI-generated content. Current theoretical discussions on copyright often explore contrasting views of “negative dialectics" and “positive dialectics" (Han et al. [2024]) or analyze originality through a fusion of subjective and objective criteria (Lu et al. [2024]). Objectively, AI-generated content shares the characteristics of traditional copyrighted works, fulfilling essential attributes such as appearance and information consumption functions. Subjectively, the process by which AI generates content reflects the creative thinking processes of human participants (Lihua and Shitong [2024]). The concept of originality as defined in US federal law can still effectively address these new forms of creativity, with the two fundamental requirements of modern copyright law (i.e., tangible medium of expression and a minimum level of creativity) remaining relevant for determining legal protection (Fenwick and Jurcys [2023]). Similarly, EU copyright regulations are currently equally applicable (Hugenholtz and Quintais [2021]). From a broad perspective, AI creativity aligns with the emotions and intentions of human participants involved in the development of AIIE rather than conflicting with them. In fact, AIIE should encourage the establishment of partnerships between human participants and AI, viewing this collaboration as a means to maximize the creative potential of both parties (Mazzone and Elgammal [2019]). While AI has been shown to offer new modes of creative expression and participation in AIIE, it has also raised questions among human participants about agency and the role of AI in the creative process (Yusa et al. [2022]). A survey (Chiarella et al. [2022]) indicated that when AI claims to have produced abstract artworks, negative biases can emerge compared to human claims. Magni et al. [2024a] found that the public sometimes perceives AI-generated products as less creative than those produced by humans. This skepticism extends to areas like news headlines, where AI-generated headlines are often viewed as lacking the accuracy of those crafted by humans due to the absence of human motivation and emotions (Longoni et al. [2022]). Additionally, Babl and Babl [2023] demonstrated that while ChatGPT-generated paper abstracts may not contain obvious errors, they can cite non-existent papers, raising concerns about academic integrity (Farrelly and Baker [2023]). Therefore, continuous efforts are still needed to enhance organizational collaboration and public awareness so that AI-driven creative models can be widely accepted and recognized both inside and outside AIIE (Gaffar and Albarashdi [2024]). 

3.2 The Performance of AIIE in the Growth Period 

After overcoming the bottleneck in the startup period, AIIE has accumulated certain development advantages. By setting up AI-based resilience mechanisms, AIIE can cope with uncertainty and has gained experience in risk resistance. Through the unique creativity of AI, AIIE has gained attractiveness in the industry and provided a technological foundation for achieving common goals. To achieve further expansion and better meet the evolving market demands and application scenarios, AIIE needs to strengthen its capabilities to meet the business needs of continuous expansion. Moore [1993] pointed out that the first task of IE in the expansion period (that is, the growth period) is to expand to new application fields. When AIIE’s market share in the original field is close to saturation, the growth space will be limited. It needs to find increments by entering new fields and expanding into the new world to stimulate market demand. If there is an over-reliance on a single field, it not only tends to enhance the risk of returns but is also not conducive to meeting the continuously upgraded expectations of users. The AI development layout has subverted many traditional industries, injecting new vitality into development. With the development of AI capabilities, its degree of universalization has been significantly improved, providing a solid technical foundation for cross-domain communication and cooperation. Therefore, the cross-domain capability of AI has become a crucial attribute in the development of AIIE during its growth period, serving as the technological foundation for enhancing AIIE’s heterogeneity and sustainability. However, cross-domain communication can also lead to new growth issues. When multiple cross-domain AIIEs target the same application domain, there will be more intense competition. This competitive situation not only affects the participants’ technology, business models, etc. but also includes the competition for resources (such as talent competition and supply chain control competition). Therefore, AIIE leaders must be able to maintain good and strong relationships with numerous participants. As a technological leader, AI often has black-box characteristics. This characteristic makes AI decisions not entirely trustworthy and even questionable. In the AIIE growth period, the precision, reliability, and transparency of AI decisions will be more conducive to consolidating cooperative-competitive relationships within AIIE. Therefore, it is necessary to consider collaborative decision-making strategies in AIIE during this period. Through this interaction mode, not only can the transparency of AIIE decision output be improved, but AIIE can also have good adaptability across domains. 14 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

3.2.1 The Cross-Domain Ability of AIIE 

As AIIE rapidly expands, cross-domain communication and collaboration become essential development tasks. To support this growth period, AI needs to possess interdisciplinary capabilities to help establish a dominant AIIE. While the advancements in AI for specific purposes are noteworthy, achieving AGI remains a distant goal (Fjelland [2020]). AGI refers to AI that matches or exceeds HI (Clune [2020]), capable of adapting in situations with limited knowledge and resources (Wang [2019]). It has the ability to reason contextually, choose perspectives, process ambiguous information (Roli et al. [2022]), creatively design solutions (Moruzzi [2020], Hein and Condat [2018]), perceive context (Kejriwal [2021]), and find general answers to complex problems. The concept of AGI envisions a future intelligent agent that could surpass even the most talented human minds (Sublime [2024]). However, there is currently no consensus on the specific AGI functionalities, standardized AGI terminology (McLean et al. [2023], Maruyama [2020]), or normalized AGI construction methods (Rosa et al. [2016]), leading to significant disparities between AGI’s theoretical framework and the actual needs of AIIE (Kumpulainen and Terziyan [2022]). Artificial Narrow Intelligence (ANI) refers to an inductive logic system that performs specific intelligent behaviors in defined environments (Hunter and Bowen [2024]), while strong AI corresponds to what is known as AGI (Gobble [2019]). This comparison highlights the differences between AGI and ANI. Although AGI can be considered a weak AI, it approaches strong AI due to its universality (Fjelland [2020]). Most current AI applications are designed for limited, specific tasks. However, as AIIE evolves, many scenarios require AGI, which can address various tasks without specialized design, thereby minimizing redundancy (Triguero et al. [2024], Fitzgerald et al. [2020], Togelius and Yannakakis [2016]). Ideally, AGI would learn from unlabeled training data and reduce the need for human interaction (Szegedy [2020]). A notable example is ChatGPT, which exemplifies the potential capabilities of AGI, demonstrating exceptional performance across many natural language processing tasks and achieving impressive results without specialized training (Amin et al. [2023]). The development of AGI relies heavily on the quality and accessibility of data provided by participants in AIIE. However, the fragmentation and variability of data hinder effective utilization. In resource-constrained situations, general capabilities will inevitably be limited (Hernández-Orallo et al. [2021]). The evolution of AGI involves a transitional phase from “learning from data" to “learning what data to learn from", shifting the focus from effectively training models to acquiring and utilizing task-related data (Jiang et al. [2023]). The decentralization of data ownership and the diversity of data formats in AIIE often result in inefficient data retrieval and processing, significantly impeding AGI’s advancement in research and application. To address these challenges, He et al. [2024] developed a standardized multimodal and multi-format data representation platform utilizing next-generation AI dataset description language. This platform aims to bridge the gaps between various data sources and fulfill unified data processing requirements. Most AI relies on understanding the principles of intelligence as a prerequisite. There are two general ways of developing AGI, namely for computer science and neuroscience. The inherent differences in formulas and encoding schemes between these ways, along with their reliance on incompatible platforms, have significantly hindered AGI’s progress. To overcome these challenges, it is necessary to develop a universal platform that can support models based on computer science, as well as algorithms inspired by neuroscience, that is, to build a so-called neural computer. This platform could be trained to foster autonomous intelligence and AGI (Huang [2017]). Pei et al. [2019] designed the Tianjic chip, which integrates these two methodologies, creating a hybrid, collaborative platform. Currently, the development of AI chips increasingly focuses on achieving neural computing with low power consumption and cost-effectiveness while comparing the generality, performance, robustness, and scalability of these chip solutions against human-like intelligence capabilities to accelerate AGI development (James [2021]). Williams [2020a] discovered that minimal reducible functions can represent all cognitive models, offering a pathway for developing AGI with general problem-solving abilities. However, most current AI systems exhibit only a single cognitive capability. To address this limitation and establish a foundation for AGI, Fei et al. [2022] proposed a basic model pre-trained on a large volume of multimodal data, enabling rapid adaptation to various downstream cognitive tasks. Additionally, Williams [2020b] suggested creating a model library that would provide AGI with a diverse selection of models, allowing for better adaptation to different application scenarios. The prevailing way to build AGI involves simulating the development of biological human brains, empowering AGI through interdisciplinary frameworks such as genetic algorithms (Clune [2019], Bauer et al. [2023]). Inspired by the brain’s evolution, Nadji-Tehrani and Eslami [2020] created the artificial brain that exhibits cognitive abilities through processes akin to biological brain growth. This method incorporates key characteristics of biological brains, including spiking neurons, neural plasticity, and neuron pruning, allowing the artificial brain to learn, retain information, and 15 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

self-improve through genetic algorithms. Lu et al. [2018] proposed developing an intelligent learning model named “Brain Intelligence", which generates novel insights about events without direct experience, leveraging artificial life with imaginative capabilities. Pontes-Filho and Nichele [2019] introduced a conceptual framework for biomimetic parallel and distributed learning, designing a spiking neural network-based proxy control mechanism that enables self-learning through environmental rewards. Mizutani et al. [2018] focused on creating a whole-brain connectivity architecture aimed at developing a universal biologically plausible AI that can perform various cognitive functions and behaviors similar to the human brain. In contrast to the previously mentioned methods for building AGI, Latapie et al. [2021] found that meta-learning allows AI to analyze and reason about various learning mechanisms, fostering highly collaborative interoperability. This way not only elevates AI’s autonomous learning and optimization capabilities but may also offer insights into enhancing human cognition. Regardless of how AGI is designed, evaluating the effectiveness of these frameworks cannot rely solely on existing methods for assessing human or non-human animal consciousness. Instead, a more reasonable way involves developing universal heuristic evaluation methods that are intuitively sound, theoretically neutral, and scientifically manageable (Shevlin [2020]). Maruyama [2020] discussed how to test AGI and proposed a novel Turing test centered on the concept of intelligent survival. Current estimates suggest that AGI could emerge before 2060, with some scholars predicting it as early as 2040 (Salmi [2023]). While the exact timeline remains uncertain, AGI’s development may arise from converging advanced technologies such as big data, deep learning, and quantum computing (Obaid [2023]). Conversely, some hold a negative view, arguing that AGI is theoretically impossible. Obaid [2023] have revisited Hubert Dreyfus’s perspective, asserting that computers do not truly engage with the world. Additionally, another common viewpoint posits that, due to the constraints of real-time and space, no real-world system will have an undefined generality (Gobble [2019]). AGI can provide enormous benefits to AIIE, but it also introduces significant risks (Salmon et al. [2021]). These risks include the possibility of AGI operating beyond human participants’ control in AIIE, setting unsafe goals, exhibiting poor ethics, perspectives, and value orientation, mismanagement of AGI (McLean et al. [2023]), and potentially threatening human survival (Naudé and Dimitri [2020], Cohen et al. [2020]). Given AGI’s advanced cognitive abilities, it’s crucial to consider whether it can be regarded as a trustee or governed by contract law (Linarelli [2019]). To realize AGI’s advantages, it is essential to align its objectives with participant values through responsible governance. As AGI approaches or even surpasses HI, AIIE must confront complex social and ethical issues related to autonomy, consciousness, and destructiveness (Obaid [2023]). 

3.2.2 The Collaborative Decision-Making Ability of AIIE 

During the growth period, AIIE will encounter increasingly complex and uncertain environments for innovation, marketing, and survival dynamics, which will pose significant challenges for decision-making, updates, and modifi-cations. While human participants, particularly experts, possess valuable domain knowledge and can understand the context needed for effective decisions, they often struggle with collecting, processing, and analyzing large volumes of high-speed data (Zagalsky et al. [2021]). Thus, it is essential to effectively integrate AI to enhance and complement human cognition through collaborative decision-making, creating a synergy that addresses the inherent limitations of both (Korteling et al. [2021]). However, decision-making tasks within AIIE cannot be fully entrusted to AI (Dellermann et al. [2021]), both now and in the foreseeable future. Ethically, AI must prioritize human interests in its decision-making processes. This principle stems from its fundamental purpose of serving human participants, the necessity of ethical and moral considerations, the importance of fostering fair and inclusive cooperative-competitive relationships, the potential to enhance human capabilities, and the urgency to mitigate growth risks. Technically, there remain gaps between AI and human participants in areas such as data sources, transparency, understanding, and application effectiveness (Zagalsky et al. [2021], Ed-Driouch et al. [2022]). AI relies on limited data to learn decision features, establish decision boundaries, and enhance generalization capabilities. In the face of complex, ambiguous, and emerging challenges during AIIE’s growth period, the absence of data can lead to inaccurate AI decisions. Furthermore, the opacity of AI decision-making complicates the explanation of results and limits the ability to formulate effective solution strategies (Johnson et al. [2022]). Moreover, granting AI full authority to make decisions within AIIE, while leaving human participants unaware of the underlying processes or only intervening during significant errors (Pacaux-Lemoine et al. [2017]), could lead to irreversible losses and consequences, even jeopardizing the stability and development of AIIE. Given these limitations, AIIE’s decision-making must not entirely exclude human intervention nor overlook the capabilities of AI (Wang et al. [2020]). Therefore, the role of AI in collaborative decision-making should center on human participants (Herrmann and Pfeiffer [2023]), aiming to supplement and enhance human participants’ abilities, guided by innovative thinking, and focusing on the long-term goal of sustainable development for AIIE (Zohuri and Rahmani [2020]). 16 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Human-machine fusion intelligence represents a third form of intelligence that synergistically combines HI and AI, resulting in capabilities that exceed the sum of both (Yao [2023]). This fusion can mitigate subjective biases and cognitive limitations inherent in human participants (Smirnov et al. [2021]) while enhancing the transparency of AI decision-making processes (Fan et al. [2021]). It also facilitates improved situational assessment, decision-making, and coordination among various stakeholders. By fostering collaboration between human participants and AI, this way effectively manages and controls the complex relationships within rapidly expanding AIIE (Hafez [2020], Dzobo et al. [2020]). Related concepts include super AI (Zohuri and Rahmani [2020]), cooperative intelligence (Sendhoff and Wersing [2020]), collective human-machine intelligence (Gupta et al. [2023b]), integrated AI (Rožanec et al. [2023]), and enhanced intelligence (Yau et al. [2021]). In such AIIE, established human participants must actively engage in the control loop and assess AI’s decision-making performance to determine appropriate levels of participation (Abbass [2019]). This way allows for the wise allocation of tasks and the definition of roles for both HI and AI (Zhang et al. [2024a], Trunk et al. [2020]), ultimately fostering an intelligent ecosystem with capabilities for self-organization, self-learning, self-adaptation, and self-evolution (Guo et al. [2022]). Therefore, AIIE should adopt a people-oriented strategy (Rožanec et al. [2023], Baicun et al. [2020]), designing new decision-making processes (Pacaux-Lemoine et al. [2017]) that enhance positive interactions while clearly defining the scope of tasks (Bullock et al. [2022]) that AI is responsible for completing. In this pattern, the status of human participants is elevated to a supervisory level, with higher-level decisions made through the corresponding human-machine interface only when necessary to override autonomy (Chen et al. [2021a]). In addition, this pattern can involve HI and continuously align AI with and respect human values (such as rationality, responsibility, and self-esteem) (Sendhoff and Wersing [2020]), accelerate AIIE growth, promote positive communica-tion, and enhance risk management capabilities. Smirnov et al. [2021] suggested that ontology methods can improve human-machine interoperability in systems like enterprise management, which require intensive information and knowledge exchange across loosely connected dynamic autonomous domains. However, multidimensional ontology integration is essential for decision-making processes that necessitate cross-domain knowledge integration. Within the loop design pattern of AIIE, the principle of control asserts that AI serves human participants, adhering to the rationality of ethical values (Dong et al. [2020]). If AI ever surpasses HI in certain contexts, implementing termination functions, such as “termination switches", will serve as a safeguard to protect human dominance in AIIE (Ishii [2019]). In the decision-making process of the human-machine fusion intelligence pattern, AIIE must address two key issues. On the one hand, it needs to navigate the potential conflicts between AI and HI during decision-making. It is worth paying attention to the tasks and conditions under which decisions can be safely entrusted to AI for processing, but in which situations human participants need to intervene and reasonably resolve conflicts that may arise between the two in decision-making (Korteling et al. [2021]). In cyber security, Zhang et al. [2022] introduced the Human in the Loop Cyber Security Model (HLCSM), which characteristics two primary components, i.e., the machine detection module and the manual intervention module. The machine detection module leads the process, while the manual intervention module is supportive. To facilitate collaboration and clarify control ownership, HLCSM includes a confidence module that assesses AI decisions, only transferring decision-making power to human participants when inconsistencies arise. Once participants address these conflicts, the results are incorporated into the knowledge base to enhance AI capabilities. Similarly, Ye et al. [2022] proposed a parallel cognitive modeling paradigm designed to continuously learn and iterate, reducing conflicts in human-machine decision-making. This paradigm comprises three elements, i.e., descriptive cognition based on artificial cognitive systems, predictive cognition derived from computational thinking experiments, and guided cognition built upon behavioral interaction guidance. Preliminary experiments in specific scenarios indicated that parallel cognition effectively guides human behavior, enhancing human-machine collaboration in complex systems. On the other hand, the emotional empowerment of AIIE in the human-machine fusion process presents another crucial issue. While emotions, moods, and personalities can lead to biased decisions among human participants, achieving a higher level of human-machine symbiosis requires intelligent cognitive abilities in AIIE that are similar to or even surpass those of humans. Such an ecosystem should not only be able to engage in human-like thinking, reasoning, and analysis, but also be able to display human-like motivations, emotions, and personalities, and capture human cognitive performance in skills, summarization, and memory (Sun [2020]). From both chemistry and sociology perspectives, the dual role of human-like characteristics, such as emotions, in ecosystem development warrants careful consideration (Magni et al. [2024b]). Filieri et al. [2022] argued that designing human-machine fusion intelligence aims to leverage AI’s scalability and efficiency while mitigating its limitations, such as poor explanatory power and restricted emotional range. Dong et al. [2020] suggested that AI essentially serves as an analogy to HI, indicating that current AI can only simulate, replace, or extend specific aspects of HI. For AI to possess higher ideological consciousness in the future, it should ideally have 17 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

the capability to simulate or even replace various personalized abilities, including imagination, emotions, intuition, potential, and tacit knowledge. This situation also raises important issues for AIIE regarding whether to grant “privacy rights" to such sentient AI and what the scope of these rights should entail (Blodgett-Ford [2018]). 

3.3 The Performance of AIIE in the Mature Period 

After expansionary growth, AIIE’s position and reputation have stabilized within the industry, with its scale, relationships, and processes reaching a relatively stable state. AIIE has begun to enter a mature period of development, which is the highest form in evolutionary perspective. At this period, AIIE should not slack off in managing the entire massive ecosystem but should build on existing resources, clarify a clear vision for future development, and continuously achieve self-renewal rather than decline or even death. Therefore, AIIE’s work in the mature period is a self-optimizing process. AI is the core technology in AIIE, therefore its leadership is needed to complete the control and management of the entire AIIE. However, as the ecosystem continues to upgrade and expand in scale, efficient management methods must be sought. Centralized management can consolidate AI across a single or a few participants for unified management and deployment. This way can achieve efficient integration of resources, facilitate collaboration through standardization and unified norms, and centralize security and risk control. However, as the scale of AIIE continues to expand, the drawbacks of centralized management also begin to emerge, including single point of failure risk, power monopoly, reduced flexibility, and resource imbalance. Therefore, with the distributed, decentralized, and hierarchical management capabilities of AI, it is necessary to carefully examine the mature AIIE management model to maintain the decentralized leadership of the entire ecosystem. Regardless of the development’s period, AIIE needs to process and analyze digital information, which serves as both the fuel and driving force for the rapid development of AI. When significant changes and turbulence occur in the information environment, such as regulatory changes, demographic shifts, and cyber threats, AIIE must provide timely feedback and effective handling of these new challenges to maintain overall stability. Especially in the mature period, participants will engage in extensive information exchange, and information privacy and security will become particularly important. Therefore, AI has a responsibility to protect the confidentiality and security of information, maintaining the stability of the entire ecosystem and achieving efficient management of precious resources. 

3.3.1 The Decentralized Ability of AIIE 

Traditionally, AI has adopted a centralized architecture, methods, and learning mode (Phansalkar et al. [2019]), so all aspects of its lifecycle (development, training, testing, deployment, etc.) are implemented in a centralized manner (Gupta [2020]), promoting the development and progress of centralized communication and decision-making (Vergne [2020]). However, in the mature period of AIIE, monopolizing core AI technology by a few large oligopolies can stifle the growth of non-oligopolistic participants. This inequitable environment not only limits AI’s potential but may also undermine the stability of AIIE (Montes and Goertzel [2019]). Therefore, it is essential to eliminate centralized control and address the challenges inherent in AI (Singh et al. [2020]). Decentralized AI, marked by distributed, permissionless, and democratic access, is regarded as the next wave of development (Gupta [2020], Kersic and Turkanovic [2024], Adel et al. [2022]). This technology signifies a paradigm shift in AI, aimed at redistributing control and resources within AIIE to broader stakeholders (AARON [2024]). To facilitate this transition from centralization, technologies such as blockchain and cryptography (Gupta [2020]) will play a crucial role in advancing AI within a distributed management framework, ultimately achieving the decentralization and democratization of AI through symbiotic relationships (Beniiche et al. [2021]). As an open, decentralized, and distributed public ledger, blockchain has emerged as an ideal solution for enhancing the security and privacy of distributed AI. It offers a decentralized and immutable data storage pattern (Saleh [2024]), enabling cryptocurrencies to securely record changes without the need for third-party verification (Krittanawong et al. [2022]). The rapid advancement of this technology has also led to the rise of AI-driven Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs), sometimes referred to as Decentralized Autonomous Companies (DACs) (Yadlapalli et al. [2019]). In this organizational structure, management and operational rules are typically encoded as smart contracts on the blockchain, allowing for autonomous operation without centralized control or third-party intervention, thereby managing participant interactions (Wang et al. [2019]). As a new economic organizational mode, existing ecosystem governance theories and methods are not fully applicable to DAOs (Wang et al. [2019]). Therefore, it is necessary for AIIE to consider transforming its management pattern after maturity, by utilizing high-performance computing and AI that can securely manage AIIE data exchange (Krittanawong et al. [2022]), building a distributed ledger technology based on blockchain to create a blueprint for distributed, decentralized, and democratic development, opening the door to more equitable development (Montes and Goertzel [2019]), providing richer virtual tools in practice (such as intelligent information analysis and remote collaboration), 18 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

and helping to promote research on related methods (such as dispersing data permissions through distributed methods) (Krittanawong et al. [2022]). AIIE’s distributed characteristics are expected to challenge traditional hierarchical management patterns, significantly reducing communication, management, and collaboration costs (Wang et al. [2019]). In such a pattern, significant changes will occur in the management and autonomy of AIIE. Firstly, the distributed framework allows AI to move away from centralized learning, enhancing its capabilities through dispersed data. This decentralization encompasses not only geographical distribution but also the ownership, format, governance, and access permissions among participants, thereby improving AIIE’s flexibility, reliability, and security. Secondly, adjustments to ecosystem architecture, major decision revisions, and other related activities will no longer be determined solely by participating oligarchs. Instead, these tasks will be divided into smaller components and processed by dedicated AI programs or experienced participants. Thirdly, distributed ledgers will facilitate the maintenance and exchange of information among participants, enhancing trust and security through attributes such as immutability, transparency, provenance, and tamper resistance (Lobo et al. [2020]). Any transaction that alters the state of information will be recorded in the distributed ledger, making it easily trackable. Access to information will be restricted to authorized entities, ensuring that even management-level participants cannot modify any records (Rana et al. [2022]). Under the influence of decentralized AI, AIIE can implement new management measures for participants to strengthen cooperative-competitive relationships. Utilizing the token mechanism of blockchain, AIIE can transform into a token-based economy. In this pattern, participants need to obtain tokens and prove ownership (De Brouwer and Borda [2017]) to enhance efficiency, inclusiveness, and participation (Basly [2024]). This way facilitates broader cooperation and competition, fostering more frequent creative interactions among qualified participants who can uncover new insights within AIIE (Lobo et al. [2020]). Teerapittayanon and Kung [2019] developed a decentralized AI network called DaiMoN, which maintains a decentralized ledger that can only be appended to record key information. This network incentivizes collaboration by rewarding contributing peers with encrypted tokens. Ponomarev and Voronkov [2017] proposed a globally distributed system that employs rewards based on smart contracts provided by Ethereum, allowing multiple interacting agents to communicate with each other and environments without reliance on a central authority. Eisses et al. [2018] introduced an open, decentralized network called Effect, which offers technical services in the AI market, replacing several existing services without charging fees. This low-barrier entry promotes rapid industry growth and drives enterprise development through tokens. However, the decentralized management pattern may also present new challenges for the development of AIIE. Firstly, the heterogeneity, asynchrony, and latency of information can create conflicts among participants, potentially impacting collaboration and business efficiency (Alirezaie et al. [2024]). Secondly, diverse stakeholders may have varying requirements for management concerning resource utilization, collaboration, and privacy (Singh and Chopra [2017]). Lastly, unpredictable logical and code vulnerabilities within management mechanisms could significantly damage AIIE (Ding et al. [2022]). 

3.3.2 The Privacy Security Protection Ability of AIIE 

The development of AIIE through AI has both positive and negative implications (Cheng et al. [2022]). Frequent interactions among participants have led to many previously private activities becoming public, making some private information easily accessible (Sigalas [2021]). At different periods of development, AI needs to integrate, process, and clean up information in AIIE, which may pose unique threats to privacy security protection and impact ethical processing and safeguarding of information (Shahriar et al. [2023]). Therefore, it is essential to prioritize privacy and security throughout the entire lifecycle of AIIE, rather than focusing solely on specific development periods. In the mature period of AIIE, the cooperative-competitive relationships are relatively stable, and the ultimate goal of value co-creation is well-defined. However, the complexity of the ecosystem necessitates frequent information exchanges among participants, imposing higher demands on privacy and security. Even though AIIE can run relatively stably, AI inherently possesses vulnerabilities and risks, creating opportunities for potential attacks and malicious manipulation (Villegas-Ch and García-Ortiz [2023]). As a result, discussions surrounding privacy and security have received attention (Zhang et al. [2021]), becoming crucial not only within academic communities but also for maintaining AIIE’s overall stability. Additionally, variations in AI will influence the decisions regarding privacy security protections, ultimately impacting the future development of AIIE (Martin and Zimmermann [2024]). In recent years, AI has become increasingly vulnerable to advanced and complex hacker attacks, presenting significant risks of abuse (Mühlhoff [2023]). Common types of AI attacks include Denial of Service (DoS), double spending attacks, malware infiltration, cheating attacks, low-quality local model training attacks, and reverse attacks. Insecure 19 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

events during AI training are termed poisoning attacks, while those during the inference stage (after training) are called evasion attacks. Poisoning attacks disrupt the training process by maliciously altering the information flow, whereas evasion attacks employ adversarial examples to interfere with inference (Bae et al. [2018]). When confronted with these security challenges, if lacking or even losing control, AI may pose a fundamental threat to the stability of AIIE, often surpassing regulatory standards and ethical guidelines (Alonso and Siracuse [2023]), and may even leak privacy in competition (Curzon et al. [2021], Giordano et al. [2022]), resulting in serious security issues. The challenges posed by security incidents have prompted collaborative research on adversarial AI, focusing on developing robust models that can adapt to various scenarios and withstand different types of attacks (Oseni et al. [2021], Al-Khassawneh [2023]). From the technology perspective, effective control of AI can ensure its positive contribution to AIIE while minimizing the impact of harmful events that threaten the integrity and efficiency of the ecosystem (Fadi et al. [2022]). From the privacy and security perspective, traditional centralized AI also exhibits drawbacks, as it is not entirely suitable for sensitive data-driven scenarios (Hao et al. [2019]). In an irreversible disaster, leveraging AIIE’s decentralized capabilities is essential for swiftly cutting off connections between the damaged components and the whole, thereby mitigating potential losses. Even within the same AIIE, some participants may feel dissatisfied with allocating usage rights, resources, and other aspects. In such cases, they might intentionally falsify information to alter the balance of power, which poses a serious threat and disruption to AI’s decision-making (Cloarec [2022]). However, if this method is applied positively, it can enhance the security of AIIE. For instance, data obfuscation programs can protect digital and/or physical documents containing sensitive information (Martinelli et al. [2020]). Selvarajan et al. [2023] employed real intrinsic analysis to convert sensitive features into securely encoded data, reducing the potential impact of malicious attacks. To ensure that AI decisions align with the development style of AIIE and provide personalized services and proactive support, a significant amount of private data needs to be utilized in the training, updating, and optimization processes. This requirement can pressure participants to share data beyond their territory (Meurisch et al. [2020]). As AIIE matures and stabilizes, the loss of collective privacy emerges as a significant issue, undermining participants’ freedom and democracy. Through experimental data analysis, Majeed et al. [2022] found that the risk of privacy breaches at the group level is notably high when using AI, with vulnerabilities of group privacy potentially increasing alongside the size and capacity of AI data. In such a situation, it is essential to evaluate whether participants’ privacy information should be treated as a scarce resource, necessitating careful consideration of shared data contributions to AIIE in compliance with relevant regulations (Pournaras et al. [2024]). The privacy protection of AIIE encompasses various topics, including identity recognition authentication (Shahriar et al. [2023], Zhang et al. [2024b]), participant entity resolution, privacy assistance systems, privacy risk modeling (Samtani et al. [2021]), participant behavior prediction, digital monitoring, behavior change risks, and information privacy laws formulation, with multidimensional characteristics (Saura et al. [2022]). By applying protective tools in a targeted manner, risks related to AI-specific components in AIIE can be alerted and reduced in advance (Curzon et al. [2021]). Differential privacy, as a promising mathematical model, can to some extent protect privacy and improve the overall security of AIIE (Zhu et al. [2020]). This technology offers unique characteristics such as privacy safeguards, security, randomization, integration, and stability (Zhu and Philip [2019]). For instance, Chen et al. [2021b] introduced a differential privacy algorithm for managing confidential information in urban clusters, further enhancing security by optimizing the information storage locations within the designed big data analysis-assisted decision privacy scheme. Traditional encryption methods, such as one-way encryption (Bandi and Yalamarthi [2022]), prevent ciphertext information from participating in operations within the ciphertext domain, creating challenges for the extensive data exchange and analysis required in AIIE. In contrast, fully homomorphic encryption allows for processing information without decryption, offering a novel way for the privacy security protection of AIIE (Su et al. [2024]). Vizitiu et al. [2019] proposed a new scheme to address the barriers to using privacy information. This scheme relies on fully homomorphic encryption to encrypt sensitive data without leaking underlying information and allows AI training, updating, and optimization to be performed directly on floating-point numbers while generating relatively small computational overhead. Federated learning is also a key privacy protection technology (Khalid et al. [2023]) that allows participants to collaboratively train AI models without exposing their local private data and reducing resource consumption (Xu et al. [2022], Bai et al. [2021]). However, in applications requiring extensive interactions, competitors can still exploit shared parameters, potentially undermining the normal operation of AIIE and introducing significant privacy and security threats. To address this challenge, Hao et al. [2019] proposed a privacy-enhanced federated learning scheme. Unlike existing methods, this scheme eliminates the need for interactivity, effectively preventing private data leakage even if multiple participants collude. 20 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Table 5: Examining the Changes Brought by AI-Centered Development to Owkin From a Spatial Perspective      

> Components Spatial perspective Traditional IE AIIE (Affected by cyberspace and newly added) Physical space Cancer centers, hospitals, biology enterprises, technology companies, universities, investment institutions, patients, drug administration, medi-cal treatment institutions Auxiliary diagnostic tool (RlapsRisk BC and MSIntuit CRC) Social space Clinical trial collaboration, strategic coopera-tion, research collaboration, channel competi-tion, cost competition, resource integration Decentralized privacy management, secure con-nection to decentralized medical resources Thinking space Accelerating drug development, providing tech-nical services, focusing on specific fields such as oncology, seeking new treatment methods, reducing risks Bridge the gap between data-driven research and clinical practice, determine personalized diagno-sis plans

Participants in AIIE, including governments and legislative bodies, are increasingly focused on regulating AI use through standards, laws, and rules. China, Australia, New Zealand, the US, the EU, and so on are actively advancing privacy laws and information protection institutions to safeguard rights related to privacy and security within AIIE. While these diverse standards provide some level of protection, there is still a need for comprehensive improvements (Bartlett [2021]). Additionally, current terms, agreements, and regulations often lack clarity, which can diminish AI’s effectiveness in addressing AIIE’s privacy and security concerns, leading participants to accept certain risks inadvertently (Peltz and Street [2020]). Therefore, when formulating and establishing relevant standards, it is essential to address critical issues such as the conceptual boundaries of privacy information (Elliott and Soifer [2022]), the implications of AI development for the right to know, and the tension between freedom and security in cross-domain information exchange. The research results further indicated that the implementation and promotion of standards should determine and adhere to an appropriate balance between privacy security protection and technological development, the overall interests of participants and AIIE, and private profits and public interests. Additionally, Wang et al. [2022] advocated for the development of specialized standards that provide clear definitions and classifications for different scenarios, along with stricter accountability mechanisms to enhance privacy and security governance. 

# 4 Case Analysis Based on AIIE 

To further demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed AIIE, starting from enterprise development cases, the paper analyzes the AI’s role in different periods of AIIE development from a practical perspective. Owkin is a biotechnology company founded in Paris, France, in 2016, with a focus on the fields of oncology and immunology. The company’s vision is to revolutionize the healthcare industry by leveraging AI to deliver personalized solutions for patients. By harnessing the power of AI, Owkin aims to bridge the gap between data-driven research and clinical practice. Therefore, the key factor for Owkin’s rapid growth is the continuous innovative use of AI in drug discovery and development. As the scale continues to expand, Owkin’s development model shares similarities with AIIE. The first part of the case analysis examines the changes that AI-centered development has brought to Owkin from four spatial perspectives, as shown in Table 5. In the physical space, the compositions of participants is not limited to being equivalent to other traditional pharmaceutical companies. In addition to conventional elements such as hospitals, research institutions, investment industries, and target patients, cyberspace provides auxiliary diagnostic tools as a further supplement to physical space participants. In 2022, Owkin announced that two AI-based diagnostic solutions, RlapsRisk BC and MSIntuit CRC, have been approved for employ in Europe. RlapsRisk BC can predict the risk of recurrence in early breast cancer patients by analyzing digital pathological images. MSIntuit CRC diagnostic tool is based on deep learning methods and can be adapted for microsatellite instability screening of routine H&E slides in colorectal cancer patients (Saillard et al. [2023]). These tools have become new diagnostic assistants for doctors, allowing them to focus their energy on high-risk populations and screen patients more effectively. In the social space, the cooperative-competitive relationship around Owkin is not limited to clinical research cooperation and medical resource competition between pharmaceutical companies but will be presented in a more complex network of relationships. Driven by AI, data as an electronic asset brings more complicated relationships to AIIE in medical scenarios. Unlike public information, medical data has strong privacy. Therefore, a secure management mechanism is needed to ensure the absolute security of data storage. Multiple participants may have access to medical data with 21 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

trade secrets and are unwilling to share it directly, so improving data utilization to promote entrepreneurship is equally essential. Currently, Owkin is building a global research network that utilizes federated learning to bring together data scientists, researchers, doctors, and representatives from pharmaceutical companies on a research platform that ensures data security and privacy. This decentralized way supports collaborative analysis of cross-global datasets, allowing Owkin to skillfully manage complex data relationships effectively. In addition, Owkin also integrates blockchain technology, allowing participants to complete performance tests by calling models without exposing data. The concept of AI as the core has also changed the ultimate goal of AIIE built by Owkin in the thinking space. Owkin focuses on the fields of oncology and immunology, aiming to put patients at the centre and integrate precision and personalization to build a brighter future for global healthcare. In addition to providing technical services, accelerating drug development, and exploring new treatment methods, Owkin’s development philosophy also centres on AI. The Owkin-built AIIE is committed to utilizing AI to identify new treatment methods, reduce risks, accelerate clinical trials, develop diagnostic tools, and support doctors in helping patients find suitable, personalized diagnoses and treatment plans. From Owkin’s actual development performance, decomposing AIIE into cyberspace and examining its impact on the other three spaces is reasonable. It is precisely this subtle influence that has led to significant changes in the three fundamental attributes of AIIE, i.e., compositions of participants, cooperative-competitive relationships, and ultimate goals, and has begun to value and evaluate the status and role of AI as a new technology. Additionally, the development ecosystem built around Owkin also shares similarities with the conceptual definition of AIIE. On the one hand, AIIE aims to create a sustainable data community driven by AI, which is consistent with Owkin’s current development model. The original intention of Owkin’s establishment was to adopt AI as the backbone and continuously expand its scale to broaden the intelligent market in the medical field, and this goal remains unchanged. On the other hand, the concept of AIIE also emphasizes the unique role that AI brings in the three spaces. In the physical space, Owkin designed auxiliary tools to help doctors diagnose quickly. In the social space, Owkin has developed a decentralized platform to help participants overcome temporal-spatial barriers to complete collaborative research. In terms of thinking space, Owkin also focuses on the ultimate goal of transparency, aiming to provide patients with trusted, personalized solutions. Through Owkin’s development, it can be seen that the description of the AIIE’s conceptual definition is reasonable and can serve as a theoretical basis for guiding the development of AIIE. The second part of the case analysis is based on Owkin’s development experience, analyzing the special abilities of AI in the three periods of AIIE’s evolution process. In the nearly 10 years since its establishment, AIIE, built around Owkin, has also undergone a transition from the startup period to the growth period and then to the mature period. Affected and challenged by internal and external environments at different periods, the dominant role of AI is also changing accordingly. Based on the functions of AI in various periods, the paper summarizes the actual events experienced by Owkin and summarizes them in Table 6. Owkin, which is in its startup period, needs to establish a precise positioning in the complex market, verify the technological feasibility of using AI as its core competitiveness, and establish preliminary business models and cooperative relationships. Both founders of Owkin have a strong research foundation in the fields of AI and biology. To demonstrate the unique role that AI can play in drug development and medical diagnosis, Owkin conducted extensive and innovative research during this period and publicly published its results in top-tier journals and conferences. After constructing mathematical models and algorithms, Owkin objectively analyzed the effectiveness and progressiveness of this technology throughout the entire process, from target discovery to drug development, by utilizing AI to analyze omics data, visual content, and patient information. Based on these research works, Owkin has cleverly avoided the crushing of mature companies under economies of scale and has a competitive advantage in talent attraction and cooperative financing. For AI-based healthcare systems, resilience is not just a technical requirement but also a clinical and ethical norm. The complexity of medical scenarios, the sensitivity of data, and the high risk of decision-making make it even more crucial for such systems to maintain reliable operation. Owkin became aware of this situation in the startup period and took corresponding measures to improve system resilience. In the joint prediction of cardiovascular disease project with Amgen, Owkin’s AI algorithm was able to better identify the patient population with the highest risk of death, heart attack, or stroke in the past three years by using information collected from over 13700 participants in the placebo group of Amgen clinical trials, outperforming conventional clinical methods. However, individual differences can lead to unstable recognition performance. To improve resilience, Owkin first compared multiple AI methods and analyzed their applicability by providing hundreds of different clinical variables. The typical prognostic factors of heart disease, such as age, medical history, smoking status, cholesterol level, and renal function, are the primary dependencies for good algorithm performance. Secondly, Owkin ranked the contribution of these clinical variables to determine their importance in prediction. Finally, the researchers emphasized that these models must be adjusted for clinical use, as many hospitals’ electronic health records do not capture as much patient data as experimental data. Through these 22 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Table 6: The Special Role Provided by AI in Different Periods of AIIE Composed of Owkin 

AIIE period Main characteristics Main performance Startup period Elastic adaptability In the project with Amgen to predict the probability of suffering from serious cardiovascular disease, Owkin analyzed and compared various AI methods and provided hundreds of different clinical variables for the program (such as age, medical history, smoking status, cholesterol count, renal function, diabetes, etc.), providing the basis for adjustment of specific clinical use. Additionally, the program can also employ the black-box method and rank which variables have the most significant impact on prediction, which helps build a globally applicable elastic program. Unique creative ability At its inception, Owkin has been discovering and publishing innovative methods in precision medicine, including using AI to analyze complex genetic data and identify new biomarkers for cancer treatment, employing U-Net for cancer diagnosis, launching the Cancer Multiscale Spatial Atlas project, adopting GAI to predict patient responses to treatment, building deep learning models to classify mesothelioma, developing AGI for pathology, training large self-supervised Vision Transformer from histopathology slides (Filiot et al. [2024]), and designing the MSIntuit tool based on deep learning for screening colorectal cancer patients (Saillard et al. [2023]). Growth period Cross-domain abil-ity a) Owkin started with oncology treatment and diagnosis, accumulating datasets of patient data in various forms, including images, voice recordings, and handwritten content. Using advanced transfer learning techniques, Owkin continuously optimizes mathematical models and machine learning algorithms to interpret various omics data, visualize data, and patient profile information. b) Using multimodal patient data, combining histology and molecular profiles, Owkin created detailed features of EP2/EP4 biology. Collaborative decision-making ability a) After obtaining approval from the US Food and Drug Administration, Owkin can apply its AI algorithms in clinical trials to identify subgroups of patients who may benefit from specific treatments, paving the way for personalized medicine. b) Medical experts have verified the data-driven AI drug research and development process, and the most promising treatment combination for the success of clinical trials has been determined, which complements the traditional expert-driven methods. Mature period Decentralized abil-ity Owkin’s research network bridges data scientists and international medical re-searchers, helping to establish and train deep learning AI models on large, dispersed datasets without requiring all participants to pool their resources. Privacy security pro-tection ability a) Utilizing a pioneering collaborative AI framework, federated learning, to enable participants to gain valuable insights from isolated, decentralized, and multi-party data sets and train AI models while protecting patient privacy and proprietary data. b) By building a joint system, Owkin aims to collect data from potentially tens of thousands of patients while maintaining personal privacy. c) In collaboration with NVIDIA and King’s College London, Owkin experimented with the feasibility of enhancing the security of medical data using differential privacy frameworks. 

elastic mechanisms, AI-based systems have better stability in practical clinical applications, laying a solid foundation for the rapid growth of Owkin-based AIIE. For Owkin, which possesses multiple core AI technologies, these valuable practical experiences serve as the driving force behind its rapid growth. To further expand the scale of AIIE, Owkin utilises AI’s cross-domain capabilities to broaden its business scope. On the one hand, Owkin continues to actively establish strategic partnerships with leading medical institutions and pharmaceutical companies, gaining rich data and expertise through cooperation, including genomics, clinical trial data, and real-world information. These multimodal data can break through the limitations of a single dimension and enable AI to understand a more comprehensive feature space in a complementary way. By using AI to uncover potential relationships between data, it can have good universality in cross-domain challenges such as data distribution, device types, and population differences. On the other hand, Owkin has begun utilising advanced technologies, such as transfer learning, to enable AI models to transfer learned information through knowledge reuse and representation sharing, thereby reducing the repetitive work of model training and significantly enhancing cross-domain capabilities. The design and implementation of these tasks are also beneficial for enhancing AIIE’s ability to handle heterogeneous information and making it have the characteristic of continuous learning. AI-based laboratory results cannot be directly popularized. It is necessary to confirm the actual effect in combination with forward-looking clinical experiments to support personalized medical care. If strict clinical validation is skipped and the technology is directly commercialized, it is easy to increase the error rate of AI diagnosis significantly, and 23 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

when combined with a decision-making black-box, it will increase user distrust. Therefore, Owkin, in its growth phase, is not only limited to developing advanced medical AI technologies but also actively seeks ways to validate the clinical performance of related models. After obtaining approval from the relevant Food and Drug Regulatory Authorities, Owkin began to conduct clinical evaluations of the predictive performance of AI. This measure can utilize the idea of human-machine integration, with the assistance of medical experts for diagnosis, to determine the most reliable treatment plan for this technology and identify the most beneficial patient groups. Through data-driven AI decision-making and expert-driven auxiliary judgment, this fusion way is expected to provide patients with personalized and accurate diagnostic methods. This human-machine integration way is also beneficial in bridging the gap between data-driven research and clinical practice. Nowadays, Owkin, which has entered a mature period, has gained a certain level of popularity in the industry, and its cooperative-competitive relationships are relatively stable. As of 2024, Owkin has publicly announced its AI pharmaceutical pipeline for the first time and has already raised $254 million in funding, including investment institutions such as Sanofi, BpiFrance, and Mubadala. In addition to daily management, data, as a precious asset, is also a key focus of this AIIE. To ensure absolute data security, Owkin did not adopt a centralized way and consolidated all data for unified management. This way not only facilitates the concentration of attack targets but also enables the central node to have excessive permissions, leading to data abuse. Therefore, Owkin collaborated with multiple partners to develop a data platform in 2022. This platform is based on blockchain technology, and enterprises with cooperative-competitive relationships can call relevant AI models to calculate results without exposing their data. This decentralized way supports collaborative analysis across global datasets, effectively managing complex and massive medical data. An essential characteristic of medical data is its strong privacy, which can have a significant impact on data management, technological applications, and legal compliance. With frequent interactions, Owkin needs to pay more attention to effectively managing these data resources within the vast AIIE system, providing privacy and security protection for the entire ecosystem. To protect patient privacy, Owkin has established a global research network based on federated learning. This network enables participants to securely connect decentralised multi-party datasets, facilitating collaborative training of AI models. In Owkin’s recent research, it was found that although federated learning can ensure extremely high privacy and security, data can still be reproduced through model inversion. To further enhance security, Owkin collaborated with NVIDIA and King’s College London to investigate the feasibility of differential privacy frameworks in improving the security of federated learning. From recent work, it can also be seen that Owkin’s focus has shifted towards privacy and security, which are key factors in maintaining the stability of AIIE. Over the past 10 years, the development of Owkin has shown a good overlap with the AIIE proposed in the paper, both in terms of spatial composition and evolutionary process. On the one hand, Owkin’s development demonstrates that an AI-centered ecosystem can be effectively constructed and reach a relatively stable state during growth under the current technological development path. On the other hand, Owkin’s example also demonstrates the rationality of the conceptual AIIE proposed in the paper, as AI will have a profound impact on the compositions of participants, cooperative-competitive relationships, and ultimate goals. In addition, the role played by AI varies at different periods of the ecosystem’s development, providing a strong basis for controlling AIIE at various periods. 

# 5 Future Development Direction of AIIE 

AI can leverage its inherent advantages to play a positive role in the evolution of AIIE across various periods of its development. However, due to constraints imposed by factors such as technological capabilities, learning methodologies, and training modes, AI also introduces foreseeable risks to the ecosystem’s development. These risks primarily manifest in four key areas: interpretability, energy conservation, fairness, and harmony. Addressing these challenges will be crucial for advancing the future development of AIIE. 

5.0.1 The Interpretability Development of AIIE 

AI is often perceived as a black-box, with changes to its internal configurations primarily driven by new and improved data (de Lemos and Grze´ s [2019]). This mode makes the technology not well interpretable and transparent, and the persuasiveness of the results will be reduced, even difficult to understand (Mercier-Laurent [2020]). Furthermore, this characteristic is disadvantageous for ecosystems prone to change, such as concept drift. Although Explanatory AI (XAI) has gained traction in academic research, most AI solutions continue to operate as black-boxes. As AIIE evolves, the participants and their cooperative-competitive relationships will continuously adapt to internal and external demands. Therefore, enhancing the overall transparency and interpretability of AIIE is crucial for its healthy development. A transparent decision-making process allows stakeholders to understand how decisions are made, thereby reducing misunderstandings, enhancing trust, and strengthening collaboration. 24 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Improving transparency and interpretability facilitates tracking, detecting, and addressing potential biases and discrimi-nation, promoting fairness, accuracy, and objectivity in AI decision-making. Additionally, these enhancements empower participants to control better, monitor, and analyze AI behavior, ensuring the overall stability, reliability, and security of AIIE operation, enabling the ecosystem to comply with reasonable regulatory requirements, and avoiding potential legal risks. This improvement is significant for AIIE, as any dangerous vulnerability or anomaly could seriously affect the ecosystem, even crossing ethical and legal boundaries. Moreover, increased transparency and interpretability can improve human-machine fusion, thereby enhancing the efficiency and performance of AIIE. While there is growing attention to solutions for AI transparency and interpretability, implementing these capabilities in large and complex ecosystems like AIIE remains a significant challenge. 

5.0.2 The Energy Conservation Development of AIIE 

AIIE requires the employ of AI to assist in decision-making, relationship management, resource integration, and other tasks. Although there has been a significant improvement in automation, the energy consumption behind it cannot be ignored. This consumption can be analyzed from two aspects, namely hardware manufacturing consumption and AI operation consumption. From the perspective of hardware manufacturing, the production of chips that rely on AI computing power requires a large amount of rare earth resources and hydropower energy. For example, the manufacturing process of a single high-end Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) may generate significant carbon emissions. Taking AIIE’s decentralized operation as an example, this way requires participants to have corresponding data processing and management capabilities. This requirement has significantly expanded AIIE’s demand for hardware while also exacerbating the problem of electronic waste pollution. Additionally, high hardware costs may also make it difficult for small and medium-sized participants to afford operational and maintenance expenses. At the operational level of AI, a single training session for a general language AI model can result in significant energy consumption. The inference stage also faces energy waste due to the accumulation of computing power, which may lead to the construction of a water cooling system and excessive consumption of water resources. However, these AI models are essential components that give AIIE unique creative capabilities. In this situation, AIIE needs to consider optimizing energy consumption throughout the entire life-cycle of hardware manufacturing and AI operations to achieve sustainable development. In terms of hardware manufacturing, AIIE can reduce its carbon footprint and costs during the manufacturing phase by developing low-power chips, utilizing renewable materials for packaging, and enhancing hardware energy efficiency, thereby providing hardware deployment advantages for small and medium-sized participants. In terms of AI operation, AIIE can innovate through algorithm compression, dynamic computation allocation, and clean energy supply, among other methods, which not only reduces the energy consumption of AI operations but also maintains model performance. This dual innovation, combining hardware and software, is beneficial for achieving the sustainable development of AIIE and constructing an energy-saving, green operating environment. 

5.0.3 The Fair Development of AIIE 

The development of AIIE relies on the support and collaboration of multiple stakeholders, including participants, society, and even international organizations. However, if AI exhibits biases, it can produce unfair, extreme, or erroneous results. At a mild level, this situation can disrupt AIIE operations and undermine participant confidence. At a severe level, it may provoke public outcry and cross moral or legal boundaries. Despite AI’s application in critical sectors such as healthcare, finance, education, and law, many members of the public remain skeptical of its decision-making capabilities, lacking trust in the technology. This skepticism significantly impacts the acceptance of AI within AIIE, which is crucial for the technology’s wider adoption. If stakeholders harbor biases or doubts about AI, its implementation will be hindered, jeopardizing the harmonious development of AIIE. Continued biased decision-making by AI can lead to uneven innovation resource allocation, which can dampen the innovation enthusiasm of participants and even cause the breakdown of relevant cooperative-competitive relationships, seriously affecting the overall effectiveness and ultimate goals of AIIE. Moreover, as an essential part of social development, unfair outputs from AIIE can result in social dissatisfaction and conflict, hindering the establishment of a fair, open, and inclusive innovation environment. Such conditions are detrimental to the long-term sustainable development of AIIE and could threaten societal and national stability. Therefore, it is necessary to eliminate bias against AI as much as possible to ensure the outputs’ correctness and fairness and promote the smooth emergence, development, maturity, and prosperity of AIIE. Through various measures such as 25 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

data diversity, model consistency, method interpretability, and audit diversity, AI fairness and bias may be ensured, further promoting the sustainable development and universal acceptance of AIIE. 

5.0.4 The Harmonious Development of AIIE 

The emergence and development of AIIE have significantly changed to the job market, presenting both new challenges and opportunities. The integration of AI, particularly through increased automation, has gradually replaced many traditional roles in industrial engineering, such as risk assessors, data collectors, and technical evaluators. This trend poses a severe unemployment risk for participants in these positions, especially those with general skill levels who may find it challenging to adapt to the new collaborative demands of working alongside AI in AIIE. This shift in demand requires participants to continuously upgrade their skills to thrive in the evolving work atmosphere and environment of AIIE. However, for some participants, this may represent a daunting challenge. The development of AIIE may further exacerbate social inequality. The technological dividend may only be concentrated in the hands of a few participants, while most participants may be forced to terminate their collaboration with AIIE due to technological changes, and even face serious social problems such as regional economic imbalances and unemployment waves. In light of these challenges, AIIE is responsible for promoting the upgrading and transformation of industrial structures, enhancing support for emerging AI technologies, and providing participants with more opportunities to demonstrate their value. Additionally, AIIE has the obligation to collaborate with governments and institutions to formulate relevant laws and regulations, establish ethical standards, and regulate AI application behaviors. By fostering a harmonious coexistence between AI and human society, AIIE can contribute to creating a fair and sustainable employment landscape. Only by actively promoting this harmonious development can AIIE gain widespread recognition and realize its potential for innovation, ultimately making significant contributions to individuals, society, nations, and the global community. 

# 6 Conclusion 

This paper provided a systematic overview of AI’s unique role and impact on the development of IE, with the aim of offering guidance and support to researchers in related fields. Firstly, the paper summarized the concept of IE and its related terms and introduced the concept of AIIE from a spatial perspective. Secondly, the paper analyzed AIIE’s uniqueness compared to traditional IE in seven dimensions, emphasizing AI’s significant influence on this ecosystem. Thirdly, from an evolutionary perspective, the paper examined the distinct roles that AI plays in AIIE development across three critical periods, highlighting AI’s transformative impact. Subsequently, the paper adopts the development trajectory of the medical company Owkin to analyze and verify the feasibility, effectiveness, and rationality of the conceptual definition of AIIE, as well as the unique role of AI in the evolution and development of AIIE, drawing on relevant examples. Finally, the paper identified the current limitations of AI and outlined the potential challenges facing the further development of AIIE, which can guide future research directions and priorities. In summary, AI’s role in advancing IE is continuously expanding, giving rise to a new paradigm of AIIE. However, researchers must remain vigilant to the multidimensional risks associated with AIIE’s development. 

# Acknowledgment 

This work was funded by XXXX (Grant No. XXXXXXXX). 

# References 

Eunika Mercier-Laurent. Platform for knowledge society and innovation ecosystems. In Artificial Intelligence for Knowledge Management: 6th IFIP WG 12.6 International Workshop, AI4KM 2018, Held at IJCAI 2018, Stockholm, Sweden, July 15, 2018, Revised and Extended Selected Papers 6 , pages 34–47. Springer, 2020. Huansheng Ning, Xiaozhen Ye, Mohammed Amine Bouras, Dawei Wei, and Mahmoud Daneshmand. General cyberspace: Cyberspace and cyber-enabled spaces. IEEE Internet of Things Journal , 5(3):1843–1856, 2018. Philip T Roundy and Arben Asllani. Understanding ai innovation contexts: a review and content analysis of artificial intelligence and entrepreneurial ecosystems research. Industrial Management & Data Systems , 2024. Dominik T Matt, Margherita Molinaro, Guido Orzes, and Giulio Pedrini. The role of innovation ecosystems in industry 4.0 adoption. Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management , 32(9):369–395, 2021. Ron Adner. Match your innovation strategy to your innovation ecosystem. Harvard business review , 84(4):98, 2006. 26 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Guilherme Brittes Benitez, Néstor Fabián Ayala, and Alejandro G Frank. Industry 4.0 innovation ecosystems: An evolutionary perspective on value cocreation. International Journal of Production Economics , 228:107735, 2020. Júlia Hofmeister Kahle, Erico Marcon, Antonio Ghezzi, and Alejandro G Frank. Smart products value creation in smes innovation ecosystems. Technological Forecasting and Social Change , 156:120024, 2020. Jing Zeng, Laurence T Yang, Man Lin, Huansheng Ning, and Jianhua Ma. A survey: Cyber-physical-social systems and their system-level design methodology. Future Generation Computer Systems , 105:1028–1042, 2020. Huansheng Ning, Zhimin Zhang, and Mahmoud Daneshmand. Phinet of things: things connected by physical space from the natural view. IEEE Internet of Things Journal , 8(11):8680–8692, 2020. Elisabeth B Reynolds and Yilmaz Uygun. Strengthening advanced manufacturing innovation ecosystems: The case of massachusetts. Technological Forecasting and Social Change , 136:178–191, 2018. Jaakko Paasi, Henri Wiman, Tiina Apilo, and Katri Valkokari. Modeling the dynamics of innovation ecosystems. 

International Journal of Innovation Studies , 7(2):142–158, 2023. Mark Fenwick, Erik PM Vermeulen, and Marcelo Corrales. Business and regulatory responses to artificial intelligence: Dynamic regulation, innovation ecosystems and the strategic management of disruptive technology. Robotics, AI and the Future of Law , pages 81–103, 2018. Satish Nambisan and Robert A Baron. Entrepreneurship in innovation ecosystems: Entrepreneurs’ self–regulatory processes and their implications for new venture success. Entrepreneurship theory and practice , 37(5):1071–1097, 2013. Yu Sun, Xiaobo Xu, Haiqing Yu, and Hecheng Wang. Impact of value co-creation in the artificial intelligence innovation ecosystem on competitive advantage and innovation intelligibility. Systems Research and Behavioral Science , 39(3): 474–488, 2022. David Sjödin. Knowledge processing and ecosystem co-creation for process innovation: Managing joint knowledge processing in process innovation projects. International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal , 15(1):135–162, 2019. Marco Ceccagnoli, Chris Forman, Peng Huang, and DJ Wu. Cocreation of value in a platform ecosystem! the case of enterprise software. MIS quarterly , pages 263–290, 2012. Niklas Kühl, Marius Mühlthaler, and Marc Goutier. Supporting customer-oriented marketing with artificial intelligence: automatically quantifying customer needs from social media. Electronic Markets , 30(2):351–367, 2020. Suprateek Sarker, Saonee Sarker, Arvin Sahaym, and Niels Bjørn-Andersen. Exploring value cocreation in relationships between an erp vendor and its partners: a revelatory case study. MIS quarterly , pages 317–338, 2012. Reza Toorajipour, Pejvak Oghazi, and Maximilian Palmié. Data ecosystem business models: Value propositions and value capture with artificial intelligence of things. International Journal of Information Management , 78:102804, 2024. Michael E Porter et al. Clusters and the new economics of competition , volume 76. Harvard Business Review Boston, 1998. James Boyer. Toward an evolutionary and sustainability perspective of the innovation ecosystem: Revisiting the panarchy model. Sustainability , 12(8):3232, 2020. Yang Gao, Siqiang Liu, and Lu Yang. Artificial intelligence and innovation capability: A dynamic capabilities perspective. International Review of Economics & Finance , page 103923, 2025. Oleksandra MANDYCH, Svitlana ZAIKA, Olena ZAIKA, Olena ZHYLIAKOVA, Oksana BLYZNIUK, et al. Risk management of innovation activities in the digital ecosystem. INNOVATIONS IN THE SCIENTIFIC, TECHNICAL AND SOCIAL ECOSYSTEMS , 1(6):24–45, 2023. Zhenfeng Gao, Yushun Fan, Cheng Wu, Jia Zhang, and Chang Chen. Dses: A blockchain-powered decentralized service eco-system. In 2018 IEEE 11th International Conference on Cloud Computing (CLOUD) , pages 25–32. IEEE, 2018. António Abreu, José Moleiro Martins, and João MF Calado. A fuzzy reasoning approach to assess innovation risk in ecosystems. Open Engineering , 8(1):551–561, 2018. Giustina Secundo, Claudia Spilotro, Johanna Gast, and Vincenzo Corvello. The transformative power of artificial intelligence within innovation ecosystems: a review and a conceptual framework. Review of Managerial Science ,pages 1–32, 2024. Xianyu Zhang, LuCheng Chen, GuoJun Sheng, XiaoPing Lu, and Xinguo Ming. An innovation service system and personalized recommendation for customer-product interaction life cycle in smart product service system. Journal of Cleaner Production , 398:136470, 2023. 27 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Charles H Jones, Subha Madhavan, Kannan Natarajan, Michael Corbo, Jane True, and Mikael Dolsten. Rewriting the textbook for pharma: how to adapt and thrive in a digital, personalized and collaborative world. Drug Discovery Today , page 104112, 2024. Diego Corrales-Garay, José-Luis Rodríguez-Sánchez, and Antonio Montero-Navarro. Co-creating value with artificial intelligence. a bibliometric approach to the use of ai in open innovation ecosystems. IEEE Access , 2024. Lin Wang and Xinhua Bi. Risk assessment of knowledge fusion in an innovation ecosystem based on a ga-bp neural network. Cognitive Systems Research , 66:201–210, 2021. Nesra Yannier, Scott E Hudson, Henry Chang, and Kenneth R Koedinger. Ai adaptivity in a mixed-reality system improves learning. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , pages 1–18, 2024. Jhon Wilder Sánchez-Obando, Luis Fernando Castillo-Ossa, Néstor Darío Duque-Méndez, and Eduardo Carrillo Zambrano. Design of a conceptual model of open innovation for the decentralization of the science, technol-ogy, and innovation system in colombia from an organizational ecology perspective. Journal of Innovation and Entrepreneurship , 13(1):67, 2024. Andrew Shipilov, Nathan Furr, and Francesco Burelli. A user guide to centralized, adaptive and decentralized ecosystems. In Research Handbook on Digital Strategy , pages 159–176. Edward Elgar Publishing, 2023. Gabriel Axel Montes and Ben Goertzel. Distributed, decentralized, and democratized artificial intelligence. Technologi-cal Forecasting and Social Change , 141:354–358, 2019. Shobhana Chandra, Sanjeev Verma, Weng Marc Lim, Satish Kumar, and Naveen Donthu. Personalization in personalized marketing: Trends and ways forward. Psychology & marketing , 39(8):1529–1562, 2022. Pai Zheng, Yuan Lin, Chun-Hsien Chen, and Xun Xu. Smart, connected open architecture product: an it-driven co-creation paradigm with lifecycle personalization concerns. International Journal of Production Research , 57(8): 2571–2584, 2019. Xianwei Shi and Yongjiang Shi. Unpacking the process of resource allocation within an entrepreneurial ecosystem. 

Research Policy , 51(9):104378, 2022. Peng Duan, Xinkai Dong, Qinqin Sun, Xiuye Wang, and Ye-Hwa Chen. Optimal resource allocation and adaptive robust control of technology innovation ecosystems based on cooperative game theory. Journal of the Franklin Institute , 360(6):3879–3913, 2023. James F Moore. Predators and prey: a new ecology of competition. Harvard business review , 71(3):75–86, 1993. James F Moore. The death of competition: leadership and strategy in the age of business ecosystems. HarperBusiness New York , 1996. Diego Alex Gazaro dos Santos, Aurora Zen, and Bruno Anicet Bittencourt. From governance to choreography: coordination of innovation ecosystems. Innovation & Management Review , 19(1):26–38, 2022. Llewellyn DW Thomas and Erkko Autio. The processes of ecosystem emergence. In Academy of management proceedings , volume 2015, page 10453. Academy of Management Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510, 2015. Stephen K Markham, Stephen J Ward, Lynda Aiman-Smith, and Angus I Kingon. The valley of death as context for role theory in product innovation. Journal of Product Innovation Management , 27(3):402–417, 2010. M Endregard and KO Nystuen. Risk assessment, resilience and adaptability for future cbrne security. In CBRNE: Challenges in the 21st Century , pages 137–154. Springer, 2022. Marie-Pierre Pacaux-Lemoine, Frank Flemisch, and Sondes Chaabane. Calibration and resilience of human-ai systems cooperation in industry. In International Workshop on Service Orientation in Holonic and Multi-Agent Manufacturing ,pages 284–294. Springer, 2023. Amine Belhadi, Venkatesh Mani, Sachin S Kamble, Syed Abdul Rehman Khan, and Surabhi Verma. Artificial intelligence-driven innovation for enhancing supply chain resilience and performance under the effect of supply chain dynamism: an empirical investigation. Annals of Operations Research , 333(2):627–652, 2024. Manuela Chacon-Chamorro, Luis Felipe Giraldo, Nicanor Quijano, Vicente Vargas-Panesso, César González, Juan Se-bastián Pinzón, Rubén Manrrique, Manuel Ríos, Yesid Fonseca, Daniel Gómez-Barrera, et al. Cooperative resilience in artificial intelligence multiagent systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.13187 , 2024. George Baryannis, Sahar Validi, Samir Dani, and Grigoris Antoniou. Supply chain risk management and artificial intelligence: state of the art and future research directions. International journal of production research , 57(7): 2179–2202, 2019. Seyed Reza Samaei. Using artificial intelligence to increase urban resilience: a case study of tehran. In 13th International Conference on Advanced Research in Science, Engineering and Technology, Brussels, Belgium , 2024. 28 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Devnaad Singh, Anupam Sharma, Rohit Kumar Singh, and Prashant Singh Rana. Augmenting supply chain resilience through ai and big data. Business Process Management Journal , 2024a. Vishwas Dohale, Milind Akarte, Angappa Gunasekaran, and Priyanka Verma. Exploring the role of artificial intelligence in building production resilience: learnings from the covid-19 pandemic. International Journal of Production Research , 62(15):5472–5488, 2024. Mengmeng Wang and Xiaoming Pan. Drivers of artificial intelligence and their effects on supply chain resilience and performance: an empirical analysis on an emerging market. Sustainability , 14(24):16836, 2022. Kirti Nayal, Rakesh D Raut, Mukesh Kumar, Sanjoy Kumar Paul, and Balkrishna E Narkhede. Role of artificial intelligence capability in the interrelation between manufacturing strategies and operational resilience. Global Journal of Flexible Systems Management , 25(1):137–162, 2024. David Romero and Johan Stahre. Towards the resilient operator 5.0: The future of work in smart resilient manufacturing systems. Procedia cirp , 104:1089–1094, 2021. Zhong Zheng, Genge Zhang, Yun Lin, Yanfang Pan, and Yandong He. The role of artificial intelligence technology in improving the resilience of supply chain during covid-19. In Advances in Artificial Systems for Medicine and Education V , pages 219–232. Springer, 2022. Torsten Priebe, Peter Kieseberg, Alexander Adrowitzer, Oliver Eigner, and Fabian Kovac. Sustainability effects of robust and resilient artificial intelligence. In International Cross-Domain Conference for Machine Learning and Knowledge Extraction , pages 188–199. Springer, 2023. Thanh Tiep Le and Abhishek Behl. Linking artificial intelligence and supply chain resilience: Roles of dynamic capabilities mediator and open innovation moderator. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management , 2023. Lai-Wan Wong, Garry Wei-Han Tan, Keng-Boon Ooi, Binshan Lin, and Yogesh K Dwivedi. Artificial intelligence-driven risk management for enhancing supply chain agility: A deep-learning-based dual-stage pls-sem-ann analysis. 

International Journal of Production Research , 62(15):5535–5555, 2024. Lena Wecken, Tobias Heinen, and Peter Nyhuis. An approach towards securing future viability of smes in a vuca world using artificial intelligence to increase resilience. ESSN: 2701-6277 , pages 489–498, 2023. Tao Wu and Jianhui Wang. Artificial intelligence for operation and control: The case of microgrids. The Electricity Journal , 34(1):106890, 2021. Jagadish Raju. Ai-driven transformation of mainframe environments: A comprehensive framework for operational resilience. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH (IJETR) , 9(2): 420–433, 2024. Hongyi Mao, Tao Zhang, and Qing Tang. Research framework for determining how artificial intelligence enables information technology service management for business model resilience. Sustainability , 13(20):11496, 2021. Jacob Simpson, Rudolph Oosthuizen, Sondoss El Sawah, and Hussein Abbass. Agile, antifragile, artificial-intelligence-enabled, command and control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.06874 , 2021. Ashutosh Samadhiya, Sanjeev Yadav, Anil Kumar, Abhijit Majumdar, Sunil Luthra, Jose Arturo Garza-Reyes, and Arvind Upadhyay. The influence of artificial intelligence techniques on disruption management: Does supply chain dynamism matter? Technology in Society , 75:102394, 2023. Nitin Rane, Saurabh Choudhary, and Jayesh Rane. Artificial intelligence for enhancing resilience. Journal of Applied Artificial Intelligence , 5(2):1–33, 2024. Liudmila V Massel, Aleksei G Massel, and Dmitrii V Pesterev. Integration of research on resilience of energy and socio-ecological systems using artificial intelligence methods. In International Conference for Information Systems and Design , pages 107–119. Springer, 2021. Viacheslav Moskalenko, Vyacheslav Kharchenko, Alona Moskalenko, and Borys Kuzikov. Resilience and resilient systems of artificial intelligence: taxonomy, models and methods. Algorithms , 16(3):165, 2023. Rameshwar Dubey, David J Bryde, Yogesh K Dwivedi, Gary Graham, and Cyril Foropon. Impact of artificial intelligence-driven big data analytics culture on agility and resilience in humanitarian supply chain: A practice-based view. International Journal of Production Economics , 250:108618, 2022. Mariam Atwani, Mustapha Hlyal, Jamila El Alami, et al. Ai in supply chain performance and resilience: a literature review. In 13ème CONFERENCE INTERNATIONALE DE MODELISATION, OPTIMISATION ET SIMULATION (MOSIM2020), 12-14 Nov 2020, AGADIR, Maroc , 2020. Derek Lichti. Change management in environmental adaptation and resilience for autonomous vehicles: Leveraging deep learning for enhanced performance. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research and Applications , 4(1):183–206, 2024. 29 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Youshan Yu, Nicolette Lakemond, and Gunnar Holmberg. Resilience in emerging complex intelligent systems: A case study of search and rescue. Journal of Contingencies and Crisis Management , 32(4):e12626, 2024. Khalilullah Mayar, David G Carmichael, and Xuesong Shen. Resilience and systems—a review. Sustainability , 14(14): 8327, 2022. Bahman Zohuri, Masoud Moghaddam, and Farhang Mossavar-Rahmani. Business resilience system integrated artificial intelligence system. International Journal of Theoretical & Computational Physics , 3:1–7, 2022. Amine Belhadi, Sachin Kamble, Samuel Fosso Wamba, and Maciel M Queiroz. Building supply-chain resilience: an artificial intelligence-based technique and decision-making framework. International Journal of Production Research , 60(14):4487–4507, 2022. Laurie A Schintler and Connie L McNeely. Artificial intelligence, institutions, and resilience: Prospects and provocations for cities. Journal of Urban Management , 11(2):256–268, 2022. Shivam Gupta, Sachin Modgil, Tsan-Ming Choi, Ajay Kumar, and Jiju Antony. Influences of artificial intelligence and blockchain technology on financial resilience of supply chains. International Journal of Production Economics , 261: 108868, 2023a. Efpraxia D Zamani, Conn Smyth, Samrat Gupta, and Denis Dennehy. Artificial intelligence and big data analytics for supply chain resilience: a systematic literature review. Annals of Operations Research , 327(2):605–632, 2023. Alireza Aliahmadi, Hamed Nozari, Javid Ghahremani-Nahr, and Agnieszka Szmelter-Jarosz. Evaluation of key impression of resilient supply chain based on artificial intelligence of things (aiot). arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.13174 ,2022. Ahmed Ali Atieh Ali, Zulkifli B Mohamed Udin, and Hussein Mohammed Esmail Abualrejal. The impact of artificial intelligence and supply chain resilience on the companies supply chains performance: The moderating role of supply chain dynamism. In International Conference on Information Systems and Intelligent Applications , pages 17–28. Springer, 2022. Carlos Sáez, Pablo Ferri, and Juan M García-Gómez. Resilient artificial intelligence in health: Synthesis and research agenda toward next-generation trustworthy clinical decision support. Journal of Medical Internet Research , 26: e50295, 2024. Florian A Maier, Sivaphani Puppala, and Michael Oberle. Artificial intelligence applications for resilience in manufac-turing—a systematic literature review. In 2024 International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Information and Communication (ICAIIC) , pages 778–784. IEEE, 2024. Jing Dai, Ruoqi Geng, Dong Xu, Wuyue Shangguan, and Jinan Shao. Unveiling the impact of the congruence between artificial intelligence and explorative learning on supply chain resilience. International Journal of Operations & Production Management , 2024. Jose-Fernando Jimenez, Abdhelghani Bekrar, Damien Trentesaux, Jairo R Montoya-Torres, and Paulo Leitão. State of the art and future trends of optimality and adaptability articulated mechanisms for manufacturing control systems. In 

2013 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics , pages 1265–1270. IEEE, 2013. Sachin Modgil, Shivam Gupta, Rébecca Stekelorum, and Issam Laguir. Ai technologies and their impact on supply chain resilience during covid-19. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management , 52(2): 130–149, 2022. Member Joy Usigbe, Senorpe Asem-Hiablie, Daniel Dooyum Uyeh, Olayinka Iyiola, Tusan Park, and Rammohan Mallipeddi. Enhancing resilience in agricultural production systems with ai-based technologies. Environment, Development and Sustainability , 26(9):21955–21983, 2024. Justyna Patalas-Maliszewska, Małgorzata Szmołda, and Hanna Łosyk. Integrating artificial intelligence into the supply chain in order to enhance sustainable production—a systematic literature review. Sustainability , 16(16):7110, 2024. Curtis Marshall, Blake Roberts, and Michael Grenn. Intelligent control & supervision for autonomous system resilience in uncertain worlds. In 2017 3rd International Conference on Control, Automation and Robotics (ICCAR) , pages 438–443. IEEE, 2017. Xingyu Li, Vasiliy Krivtsov, Chaoye Pan, Aydin Nassehi, Robert X Gao, and Dmitry Ivanov. End-to-end supply chain resilience management using deep learning, survival analysis, and explainable artificial intelligence. International Journal of Production Research , pages 1–29, 2024. Liang Tan, Keping Yu, Fangpeng Ming, Xiaofan Cheng, and Gautam Srivastava. Secure and resilient artificial intelligence of things: a honeynet approach for threat detection and situational awareness. IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine , 11(3):69–78, 2021. 30 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Emmanuel Adeyemi Abaku, Tolulope Esther Edunjobi, and Agnes Clare Odimarha. Theoretical approaches to ai in supply chain optimization: Pathways to efficiency and resilience. International Journal of Science and Technology Research Archive , 6(1):092–107, 2024. Rohit Kumar Singh, Sachin Modgil, and Adam Shore. Building artificial intelligence enabled resilient supply chain: a multi-method approach. Journal of Enterprise Information Management , 37(2):414–436, 2024b. Jennifer Haase and Paul HP Hanel. Artificial muses: Generative artificial intelligence chatbots have risen to human-level creativity. Journal of Creativity , 33(3):100066, 2023. Mika Koivisto and Simone Grassini. Best humans still outperform artificial intelligence in a creative divergent thinking task. Scientific reports , 13(1):13601, 2023. Jason Gulya. Rebranding originality for the age of ai. International Journal of Emerging and Disruptive Innovation in Education: VISIONARIUM , 1(1):5, 2023. Mark Fenwick and Paulius Jurcys. Originality and the future of copyright in an age of generative ai. Computer Law & Security Review , 51:105892, 2023. Samuel Samiai Andrews. Copyright originality in the digital space: The kingdom of saudi arabia’s creatives. In 

Handbook on Originality in Copyright: Cases and Materials , pages 1–24. Springer, 2023. Keng-Boon Ooi, Garry Wei-Han Tan, Mostafa Al-Emran, Mohammed A Al-Sharafi, Alexandru Capatina, Amrita Chakraborty, Yogesh K Dwivedi, Tzu-Ling Huang, Arpan Kumar Kar, Voon-Hsien Lee, et al. The potential of generative artificial intelligence across disciplines: Perspectives and future directions. Journal of Computer Information Systems , pages 1–32, 2023. Nishith Reddy Mannuru, Sakib Shahriar, Zoë A Teel, Ting Wang, Brady D Lund, Solomon Tijani, Chalermchai Oak Pohboon, Daniel Agbaji, Joy Alhassan, JaKLyn Galley, et al. Artificial intelligence in developing countries: The impact of generative artificial intelligence (ai) technologies for development. Information Development , page 02666669231200628, 2023. Eric Zhou and Dokyun Lee. Generative artificial intelligence, human creativity, and art. PNAS nexus , 3(3):pgae052, 2024. Jin Meilin. A study on the influence of originality and usefulness of artificial intelligence music products on consumer perceived attractiveness and purchase intention. Journal of The Korea Society of Computer and Information , 25(9): 45–52, 2020. Serhad Sarica and Jianxi Luo. The innovation paradox: Concept space expansion with diminishing originality and the promise of creative ai. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.13300 , 2023. Zhihan Lv. Generative artificial intelligence in the metaverse era. Cognitive Robotics , 3:208–217, 2023. Erik E Guzik, Christian Byrge, and Christian Gilde. The originality of machines: Ai takes the torrance test. Journal of Creativity , 33(3):100065, 2023. Stephen Fox. Domesticating artificial intelligence: Expanding human self-expression through applications of artificial intelligence in prosumption. Journal of Consumer Culture , 18(1):169–183, 2018. Luiz Fernando de Carvalho Botega and Jonny Carlos da Silva. An artificial intelligence approach to support knowledge management on the selection of creativity and innovation techniques. Journal of Knowledge Management , 24(5): 1107–1130, 2020. Francisco J García-Peñalvo, Faraón Llorens Largo, Javier Vidal, et al. The new reality of education in the face of advances in generative artificial intelligence. 2023. Aras Bozkurt. Generative artificial intelligence (ai) powered conversational educational agents: The inevitable paradigm shift. Asian Journal of Distance Education , 18(1), 2023. Grant Cooper. Examining science education in chatgpt: An exploratory study of generative artificial intelligence. 

Journal of Science Education and Technology , 32(3):444–452, 2023. Zongyu Yin, Federico Reuben, Susan Stepney, and Tom Collins. “a good algorithm does not steal–it imitates”: The originality report as a means of measuring when a music generation algorithm copies too much. In Artificial Intelligence in Music, Sound, Art and Design: 10th International Conference, EvoMUSART 2021, Held as Part of EvoStar 2021, Virtual Event, April 7–9, 2021, Proceedings 10 , pages 360–375. Springer, 2021. Maouahib Zerouati and Wiem Zerouati. Examining the use of chatgpt in scientific research: Enhancing creativity or hindering originality? Security & strategic affairs , 1(2):14–26, 2024. 31 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Martin Májovsk `y, Martin ˇ Cern `y, Matˇ ej Kasal, Martin Komarc, and David Netuka. Artificial intelligence can generate fraudulent but authentic-looking scientific medical articles: Pandora’s box has been opened. Journal of medical Internet research , 25:e46924, 2023. Gonzalo Martínez, Lauren Watson, Pedro Reviriego, José Alberto Hernández, Marc Juarez, and Rik Sarkar. Towards understanding the interplay of generative artificial intelligence and the internet. In International Workshop on Epistemic Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence , pages 59–73. Springer, 2023. Carmen-Oana Mih˘ ail˘ a. Artistic creations. originality, inspiration, imitation and artificial intelligence. Challenges of the Knowledge Society , pages 541–558, 2023. Tianxiang He. Ai originality revisited: Can we prompt copyright over ai-generated pictures? GRUR International , 73 (4):299–307, 2024. Beatriz A Ribeiro. Intellectual properties of artificial creativity: dismantling originality in european’s legal framework. In Intelligent Data Engineering and Automated Learning–IDEAL 2020: 21st International Conference, Guimaraes, Portugal, November 4–6, 2020, Proceedings, Part II 21 , pages 379–389. Springer, 2020. Francesca Mazzi. Authorship in artificial intelligence-generated works: Exploring originality in text prompts and artificial intelligence outputs through philosophical foundations of copyright and collage protection. The Journal of World Intellectual Property , 2024. Jason K Eshraghian. Human ownership of artificial creativity. Nature Machine Intelligence , 2(3):157–160, 2020. David Linke and David Petrlík. ‘copyright work and its definition with regard to originality and ai’–conference report on the fourth binational seminar of tu dresden and charles university in prague, 27 june 2019. GRUR International ,69(1):39–45, 2020. Jiaming Lu, Tianqi Wang, and Yahui Zhao. From the perspective of originality: Analysis of the legal nature of artificial intelligence products. Highlights in Business, Economics and Management , 39:265–270, 2024. Javier Díaz-Noci. ¿ fusión o plagio? la importancia de la originalidad y el derecho de transformación de la obra en la producción informativa mediante ia. Hipertext. net , 26:69–76, 2023. Muzhen Han, Xinyu Wu, and Zhuobin Zhu. The perspective of originality: Research on the legal attribute of content generated by artificial intelligence. Highlights in Business, Economics and Management , 39:369–374, 2024. YANG Lihua and WANG Shitong. Reflection on the objectivity of copyright in aigc on the selection of originality criteria in the judgement of works. Journal of Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics Social Sciences Edition , 37(2):50–62, 2024. P Bernt Hugenholtz and João Pedro Quintais. Copyright and artificial creation: does eu copyright law protect ai-assisted output? IIC-International Review of Intellectual Property and Competition Law , 52(9):1190–1216, 2021. Marian Mazzone and Ahmed Elgammal. Art, creativity, and the potential of artificial intelligence. In Arts , volume 8, page 26. MDPI, 2019. I Made Marthana Yusa, Yu Yu, and Tetiana Sovhyra. Reflections on the use of artificial intelligence in works of art. 

Journal of Aesthetics, Design, and Art Management , 2(2):152–167, 2022. Salvatore G Chiarella, Giulia Torromino, Dionigi M Gagliardi, Dario Rossi, Fabio Babiloni, and Giulia Cartocci. Investigating the negative bias towards artificial intelligence: Effects of prior assignment of ai-authorship on the aesthetic appreciation of abstract paintings. Computers in Human Behavior , 137:107406, 2022. Federico Magni, Jiyoung Park, and Melody Manchi Chao. Humans as creativity gatekeepers: Are we biased against ai creativity? Journal of Business and Psychology , 39(3):643–656, 2024a. Chiara Longoni, Andrey Fradkin, Luca Cian, and Gordon Pennycook. News from generative artificial intelligence is believed less. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency , pages 97–106, 2022. Franz E Babl and Maximilian P Babl. Generative artificial intelligence: Can chatgpt write a quality abstract? Emergency Medicine Australasia , 35(5):809–811, 2023. Tom Farrelly and Nick Baker. Generative artificial intelligence: Implications and considerations for higher education practice. Education Sciences , 13(11):1109, 2023. Hafiz Gaffar and Saleh Albarashdi. Copyright protection for ai-generated works: Exploring originality and ownership in a digital landscape. Asian Journal of International Law , pages 1–24, 2024. Ragnar Fjelland. Why general artificial intelligence will not be realized. Humanities and Social Sciences Communica-tions , 7(1):1–9, 2020. 32 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Jeff Clune. Ai-gas: Ai-generating algorithms, an alternate paradigm for producing general artificial intelligence. arxiv. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.10985 , 2020. Pei Wang. On defining artificial intelligence. Journal of Artificial General Intelligence , 10(2):1–37, 2019. Andrea Roli, Johannes Jaeger, and Stuart A Kauffman. How organisms come to know the world: Fundamental limits on artificial general intelligence. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution , 9:806283, 2022. Caterina Moruzzi. Artificial creativity and general intelligence. 2020. Andreas M Hein and Hélene Condat. Can machines design? an artificial general intelligence approach. In Artificial General Intelligence: 11th International Conference, AGI 2018, Prague, Czech Republic, August 22-25, 2018, Proceedings 11 , pages 87–99. Springer, 2018. Mayank Kejriwal. Essential features in a theory of context for enabling artificial general intelligence. Applied Sciences ,11(24):11991, 2021. Jérémie Sublime. The ai race: Why current neural network-based architectures are a poor basis for artificial general intelligence. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research , 79:41–67, 2024. Scott McLean, Gemma JM Read, Jason Thompson, Chris Baber, Neville A Stanton, and Paul M Salmon. The risks associated with artificial general intelligence: A systematic review. Journal of Experimental & Theoretical Artificial Intelligence , 35(5):649–663, 2023. Yoshihiro Maruyama. The conditions of artificial general intelligence: logic, autonomy, resilience, integrity, morality, emotion, embodiment, and embeddedness. In Artificial General Intelligence: 13th International Conference, AGI 2020, St. Petersburg, Russia, September 16–19, 2020, Proceedings 13 , pages 242–251. Springer, 2020. Marek Rosa, Jan Feyereisl, and The GoodAI Collective. A framework for searching for general artificial intelligence. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.00685 , 2016. Samu Kumpulainen and Vagan Terziyan. Artificial general intelligence vs. industry 4.0: Do they need each other? 

Procedia Computer Science , 200:140–150, 2022. Cameron Hunter and Bleddyn E Bowen. We’ll never have a model of an ai major-general: Artificial intelligence, command decisions, and kitsch visions of war. Journal of Strategic Studies , 47(1):116–146, 2024. MaryAnne M Gobble. The road to artificial general intelligence, 2019. Isaac Triguero, Daniel Molina, Javier Poyatos, Javier Del Ser, and Francisco Herrera. General purpose artificial intelligence systems (gpais): Properties, definition, taxonomy, societal implications and responsible governance. 

Information Fusion , 103:102135, 2024. McKenna Fitzgerald, Aaron Boddy, and Seth D Baum. 2020 survey of artificial general intelligence projects for ethics, risk, and policy. Global Catastrophic Risk Institute Technical Report , pages 20–1, 2020. Julian Togelius and Georgios N Yannakakis. General general game ai. In 2016 IEEE Conference on Computational Intelligence and Games (CIG) , pages 1–8. IEEE, 2016. Christian Szegedy. A promising path towards autoformalization and general artificial intelligence. In Intelligent Computer Mathematics: 13th International Conference, CICM 2020, Bertinoro, Italy, July 26–31, 2020, Proceedings 13 , pages 3–20. Springer, 2020. Mostafa M Amin, Erik Cambria, and Björn W Schuller. Will affective computing emerge from foundation models and general artificial intelligence? a first evaluation of chatgpt. IEEE Intelligent Systems , 38(2):15–23, 2023. José Hernández-Orallo, Bao Sheng Loe, Lucy Cheke, Fernando Martínez-Plumed, and Seán Ó hÉigeartaigh. General intelligence disentangled via a generality metric for natural and artificial intelligence. Scientific reports , 11(1):22822, 2021. Minqi Jiang, Tim Rocktäschel, and Edward Grefenstette. General intelligence requires rethinking exploration. Royal Society Open Science , 10(6):230539, 2023. Conghui He, Wei Li, Zhenjiang Jin, Chao Xu, Bin Wang, and Dahua Lin. Opendatalab: Empowering general artificial intelligence with open datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.13773 , 2024. Tie-Jun Huang. Imitating the brain with neurocomputer a “new” way towards artificial general intelligence. International Journal of Automation and Computing , 14(5):520–531, 2017. Jing Pei, Lei Deng, Sen Song, Mingguo Zhao, Youhui Zhang, Shuang Wu, Guanrui Wang, Zhe Zou, Zhenzhi Wu, Wei He, et al. Towards artificial general intelligence with hybrid tianjic chip architecture. Nature , 572(7767):106–111, 2019. 33 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Alex P James. The why, what, and how of artificial general intelligence chip development. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems , 14(2):333–347, 2021. Andy E Williams. A model for artificial general intelligence. In International Conference on Artificial General Intelligence , pages 357–369. Springer, 2020a. Nanyi Fei, Zhiwu Lu, Yizhao Gao, Guoxing Yang, Yuqi Huo, Jingyuan Wen, Haoyu Lu, Ruihua Song, Xin Gao, Tao Xiang, et al. Towards artificial general intelligence via a multimodal foundation model. Nature Communications , 13 (1):3094, 2022. Andy E Williams. Defining functional models of artificial intelligence solutions to create a library that an artificial general intelligence can use to increase general problem solving ability. 2020b. Jeff Clune. Ai-gas: Ai-generating algorithms, an alternate paradigm for producing general artificial intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.10985 , 2019. Elisabeth Bauer, Martin Greisel, Ilia Kuznetsov, Markus Berndt, Ingo Kollar, Markus Dresel, Martin R Fischer, and Frank Fischer. Using natural language processing to support peer-feedback in the age of artificial intelligence: A cross-disciplinary framework and a research agenda. British Journal of Educational Technology , 54(5):1222–1245, 2023. Mohammad Nadji-Tehrani and Ali Eslami. A brain-inspired framework for evolutionary artificial general intelligence. 

IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning systems , 31(12):5257–5271, 2020. Huimin Lu, Yujie Li, Min Chen, Hyoungseop Kim, and Seiichi Serikawa. Brain intelligence: go beyond artificial intelligence. Mobile Networks and Applications , 23:368–375, 2018. Sidney Pontes-Filho and Stefano Nichele. A conceptual bio-inspired framework for the evolution of artificial general intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:1903.10410 , 2019. Haruo Mizutani, Michihiko Ueno, Naoya Arakawa, and Hiroshi Yamakawa. Whole brain connectomic architecture to develop general artificial intelligence. Procedia computer science , 123:308–313, 2018. Hugo Latapie, Ozkan Kilic, Gaowen Liu, Ramana Kompella, Adam Lawrence, Yuhong Sun, Jayanth Srinivasa, Yan Yan, Pei Wang, and Kristinn R Thórisson. A metamodel and framework for artificial general intelligence from theory to practice. Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Consciousness , 8(02):205–227, 2021. Henry Shevlin. General intelligence: An ecumenical heuristic for artificial consciousness research? Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Consciousness , 7(02):245–256, 2020. Jussi Salmi. A democratic way of controlling artificial general intelligence. AI & SOCIETY , 38(4):1785–1791, 2023. Omar Ibrahim Obaid. From machine learning to artificial general intelligence: A roadmap and implications. 

Mesopotamian Journal of Big Data , 2023:81–91, 2023. Paul M Salmon, Tony Carden, and Peter A Hancock. Putting the humanity into inhuman systems: How human factors and ergonomics can be used to manage the risks associated with artificial general intelligence. Human factors and ergonomics in manufacturing & service industries , 31(2):223–236, 2021. Wim Naudé and Nicola Dimitri. The race for an artificial general intelligence: implications for public policy. AI & society , 35:367–379, 2020. Michael Cohen, Badri Vellambi, and Marcus Hutter. Asymptotically unambitious artificial general intelligence. In 

Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence , volume 34, pages 2467–2476, 2020. John Linarelli. Artificial general intelligence and contract. Uniform Law Review , 24(2):330–347, 2019. Alexey Zagalsky, Dov Te’eni, Inbal Yahav, David G Schwartz, Gahl Silverman, Daniel Cohen, Yossi Mann, and Dafna Lewinsky. The design of reciprocal learning between human and artificial intelligence. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction , 5(CSCW2):1–36, 2021. JE (Hans) Korteling, Gillian C van de Boer-Visschedijk, Romy AM Blankendaal, Rudy C Boonekamp, and Aletta R Eikelboom. Human-versus artificial intelligence. Frontiers in artificial intelligence , 4:622364, 2021. Dominik Dellermann, Adrian Calma, Nikolaus Lipusch, Thorsten Weber, Sascha Weigel, and Philipp Ebel. The future of human-ai collaboration: a taxonomy of design knowledge for hybrid intelligence systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.03354 , 2021. Chadia Ed-Driouch, Franck Mars, Pierre-Antoine Gourraud, and Cédric Dumas. Addressing the challenges and barriers to the integration of machine learning into clinical practice: An innovative method to hybrid human–machine intelligence. Sensors , 22(21):8313, 2022. 34 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Marina Johnson, Abdullah Albizri, Antoine Harfouche, and Samuel Fosso-Wamba. Integrating human knowledge into artificial intelligence for complex and ill-structured problems: Informed artificial intelligence. International Journal of Information Management , 64:102479, 2022. Marie-Pierre Pacaux-Lemoine, Damien Trentesaux, Gabriel Zambrano Rey, and Patrick Millot. Designing intelligent manufacturing systems through human-machine cooperation principles: A human-centered approach. Computers & Industrial Engineering , 111:581–595, 2017. Baicun Wang, Xingyu Li, Theodor Freiheit, and Bogdan I Epureanu. Learning and intelligence in human-cyber-physical systems: framework and perspective. In 2020 Second International Conference on Transdisciplinary AI (TransAI) ,pages 142–145. IEEE, 2020. Thomas Herrmann and Sabine Pfeiffer. Keeping the organization in the loop: a socio-technical extension of human-centered artificial intelligence. Ai & Society , 38(4):1523–1542, 2023. Bahman Zohuri and Farhang Mossavar Rahmani. Artificial intelligence versus human intelligence: A new technological race. Acta Scientific Pharmaceutical Sciences (ISSN: 2581-5423) , 4(5), 2020. Yiyu Yao. Human-machine co-intelligence through symbiosis in the smv space. Applied Intelligence , 53(3):2777–2797, 2023. Alexander Smirnov, Tatiana Levashova, Andrew Ponomarev, and Nikolay Shilov. Methodology for multi-aspect ontology development: ontology for decision support based on human-machine collective intelligence. IEEE Access ,9:135167–135185, 2021. Chao Fan, Cheng Zhang, Alex Yahja, and Ali Mostafavi. Disaster city digital twin: A vision for integrating artificial and human intelligence for disaster management. International journal of information management , 56:102049, 2021. Wael Hafez. Human digital twins: Two-layer machine learning architecture for intelligent human-machine collaboration. In Intelligent Human Systems Integration 2020: Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Intelligent Human Systems Integration (IHSI 2020): Integrating People and Intelligent Systems, February 19-21, 2020, Modena, Italy , pages 627–632. Springer, 2020. Kevin Dzobo, Sampson Adotey, Nicholas E Thomford, and Witness Dzobo. Integrating artificial and human intelligence: a partnership for responsible innovation in biomedical engineering and medicine. Omics: a journal of integrative biology , 24(5):247–263, 2020. Bernhard Sendhoff and Heiko Wersing. Cooperative intelligence-a humane perspective. In 2020 IEEE international conference on human-machine systems (ICHMS) , pages 1–6. IEEE, 2020. Pranav Gupta, Thuy Ngoc Nguyen, Cleotilde Gonzalez, and Anita Williams Woolley. Fostering collective intelligence in human–ai collaboration: laying the groundwork for cohumain. Topics in cognitive science , 2023b. Jože M Rožanec, Inna Novalija, Patrik Zajec, Klemen Kenda, Hooman Tavakoli Ghinani, Sungho Suh, Entso Veliou, Dimitrios Papamartzivanos, Thanassis Giannetsos, Sofia Anna Menesidou, et al. Human-centric artificial intelligence architecture for industry 5.0 applications. International journal of production research , 61(20):6847–6872, 2023. Kok-Lim Alvin Yau, Heejeong Jasmine Lee, Yung-Wey Chong, Mee Hong Ling, Aqeel Raza Syed, Celimuge Wu, and Hock Guan Goh. Augmented intelligence: surveys of literature and expert opinion to understand relations between human intelligence and artificial intelligence. IEEE Access , 9:136744–136761, 2021. Hussein A Abbass. Social integration of artificial intelligence: functions, automation allocation logic and human-autonomy trust. Cognitive Computation , 11(2):159–171, 2019. Yanyu Zhang, Huajie Jiang, and Qiguo Gong. Dynamics of human-machine task allocation in intelligent production processes: A case study. Computers & Industrial Engineering , 194:110354, 2024a. Anna Trunk, Hendrik Birkel, and Evi Hartmann. On the current state of combining human and artificial intelligence for strategic organizational decision making. Business Research , 13(3):875–919, 2020. Bin Guo, Yan Liu, Sicong Liu, Zhiwen Yu, and Xingshe Zhou. Crowdhmt: crowd intelligence with the deep fusion of human, machine, and iot. IEEE Internet of Things Journal , 9(24):24822–24842, 2022. WANG Baicun, XUE Yuan, YAN Jianlin, Yang Xiaoying, and Zhou Yuan. Human-centered intelligent manufacturing: overview and perspectives. Strategic Study of CAE , 22(4):139–146, 2020. Justin B Bullock, Hsini Huang, and Kyoung-Cheol Kim. Machine intelligence, bureaucracy, and human control. 

Perspectives on Public Management and Governance , 5(2):187–196, 2022. Xiao Chen, Martin A Eder, ASM Shihavuddin, and Dan Zheng. A human-cyber-physical system toward intelligent wind turbine operation and maintenance. Sustainability , 13(2):561, 2021a. 35 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Yanyan Dong, Jie Hou, Ning Zhang, and Maocong Zhang. Research on how human intelligence, consciousness, and cognitive computing affect the development of artificial intelligence. Complexity , 2020(1):1680845, 2020. Kaori Ishii. Comparative legal study on privacy and personal data protection for robots equipped with artificial intelligence: looking at functional and technological aspects. AI & society , 34:509–533, 2019. Zhimin Zhang, Huansheng Ning, Feifei Shi, Fadi Farha, Yang Xu, Jiabo Xu, Fan Zhang, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo. Artificial intelligence in cyber security: research advances, challenges, and opportunities. Artificial Intelligence Review , pages 1–25, 2022. Peijun Ye, Xiao Wang, Wenbo Zheng, Qinglai Wei, and Fei-Yue Wang. Parallel cognition: Hybrid intelligence for human-machine interaction and management. Frontiers of Information Technology & Electronic Engineering , 23 (12):1765–1779, 2022. Ron Sun. Potential of full human–machine symbiosis through truly intelligent cognitive systems. AI & society , 35(1): 17–28, 2020. Domitilla Magni, Giovanna Del Gaudio, Armando Papa, and Valentina Della Corte. Digital humanism and artificial intelligence: the role of emotions beyond the human–machine interaction in society 5.0. Journal of Management History , 30(2):195–218, 2024b. Raffaele Filieri, Zhibin Lin, Yulei Li, Xiaoqian Lu, and Xingwei Yang. Customer emotions in service robot encounters: A hybrid machine-human intelligence approach. Journal of Service Research , 25(4):614–629, 2022. SJ Blodgett-Ford. Future privacy: A real right to privacy for artificial intelligence. In Research Handbook on the Law of Artificial Intelligence , pages 307–352. Edward Elgar Publishing, 2018. Shraddha Phansalkar, Pooja Kamat, Swati Ahirrao, and Ambika Pawar. Decentralizing ai applications with block chain. 

International Journal of Scientific & Technology Research , 8(9):9, 2019. Ishan Gupta. Decentralization of artificial intelligence: analyzing developments in decentralized learning and distributed ai networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1603.04467 , 2020. Jean-Philippe Vergne. Decentralized vs. distributed organization: Blockchain, machine learning and the future of the digital platform. Organization Theory , 1(4):2631787720977052, 2020. Sushil Kumar Singh, Shailendra Rathore, and Jong Hyuk Park. Blockiotintelligence: A blockchain-enabled intelligent iot architecture with artificial intelligence. Future Generation Computer Systems , 110:721–743, 2020. Vid Kersic and Muhamed Turkanovic. A review on building blocks of decentralized artificial intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.02885 , 2024. Kareem Adel, Ahmed Elhakeem, and Mohamed Marzouk. Decentralizing construction ai applications using blockchain technology. Expert Systems with Applications , 194:116548, 2022. Y AARON. A review on decentralized artificial intelligence in the era of large models. 2024. Abdeljalil Beniiche, Amin Ebrahimzadeh, and Martin Maier. The way of the dao: Toward decentralizing the tactile internet. IEEE Network , 35(4):190–197, 2021. Ahmed M Shamsan Saleh. Blockchain for secure and decentralized artificial intelligence in cybersecurity: A compre-hensive review. Blockchain: Research and Applications , page 100193, 2024. Chayakrit Krittanawong, Mehmet Aydar, Hafeez Ul Hassan Virk, Anirudh Kumar, Scott Kaplin, Lucca Guimaraes, Zhen Wang, and Jonathan L Halperin. Artificial intelligence-powered blockchains for cardiovascular medicine. 

Canadian Journal of Cardiology , 38(2):185–195, 2022. Anjani Raj Yadlapalli, Ninad Mohite, Vijayant Pawar, and Shelly Sachdeva. Artificially intelligent decentralized autonomous organization. In 2019 4th International Conference on Information Systems and Computer Networks (ISCON) , pages 667–671. IEEE, 2019. Shuai Wang, Wenwen Ding, Juanjuan Li, Yong Yuan, Liwei Ouyang, and Fei-Yue Wang. Decentralized autonomous organizations: Concept, model, and applications. IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems , 6(5):870–878, 2019. Vivian Brian Lobo, Jetso Analin, Ronald Melwin Laban, and Shraddha S More. Convergence of blockchain and artificial intelligence to decentralize healthcare systems. In 2020 Fourth International Conference on Computing Methodologies and Communication (ICCMC) , pages 925–931. IEEE, 2020. Sumit Kumar Rana, Sanjeev Kumar Rana, Kashif Nisar, Ag Asri Ag Ibrahim, Arun Kumar Rana, Nitin Goyal, and Paras Chawla. Blockchain technology and artificial intelligence based decentralized access control model to enable secure interoperability for healthcare. Sustainability , 14(15):9471, 2022. 36 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Walter De Brouwer and Mason Borda. Neuron: Decentralized artificial intelligence, distributing deep learning to the edge of the network. Doc. ai , 2017. Sami Basly. Artificial intelligence and the future of decentralized finance. In Decentralized Finance: The Impact of Blockchain-Based Financial Innovations on Entrepreneurship , pages 175–183. Springer, 2024. Surat Teerapittayanon and HT Kung. Daimon: A decentralized artificial intelligence model network. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain) , pages 132–139. IEEE, 2019. S Ponomarev and AE Voronkov. Multi-agent systems and decentralized artificial superintelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.08529 , 2017. Jesse Eisses, Laurens Verspeek, Chris Dawe, and Sjoerd Dijkstra. Effect network: Decentralized network for artificial intelligence. URL http://effect. ai/download/effect whitepaper. pdf , 2018. Marjan Alirezaie, William Hoffman, Paria Zabihi, Hossein Rahnama, and Alex Pentland. Decentralized data and artificial intelligence orchestration for transparent and efficient small and medium-sized enterprises trade financing. 

Journal of Risk and Financial Management , 17(1):38, 2024. Munindar P Singh and Amit K Chopra. The internet of things and multiagent systems: Decentralized intelligence in distributed computing. In 2017 IEEE 37th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS) ,pages 1738–1747. IEEE, 2017. Wenwen Ding, Xiaolong Liang, Jiachen Hou, Juanjuan Li, Younes Rouabah, Yong Yuan, and Fei-Yue Wang. A novel approach for predictable governance of decentralized autonomous organizations based on parallel intelligence. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems , 53(5):3092–3103, 2022. Xusen Cheng, Linlin Su, Xin Luo, Jose Benitez, and Shun Cai. The good, the bad, and the ugly: Impact of analytics and artificial intelligence-enabled personal information collection on privacy and participation in ridesharing. European Journal of Information Systems , 31(3):339–363, 2022. Markos Sigalas. Artificial intelligence: dangers to privacy and democracy. 2021. Sakib Shahriar, Sonal Allana, Seyed Mehdi Hazratifard, and Rozita Dara. A survey of privacy risks and mitigation strategies in the artificial intelligence life cycle. IEEE Access , 11:61829–61854, 2023. William Villegas-Ch and Joselin García-Ortiz. Toward a comprehensive framework for ensuring security and privacy in artificial intelligence. Electronics , 12(18):3786, 2023. Yi Zhang, Mengjia Wu, George Yijun Tian, Guangquan Zhang, and Jie Lu. Ethics and privacy of artificial intelligence: Understandings from bibliometrics. Knowledge-Based Systems , 222:106994, 2021. Kelly D Martin and Johanna Zimmermann. Artificial intelligence and its implications for data privacy. Current Opinion in Psychology , page 101829, 2024. Rainer Mühlhoff. Predictive privacy: Collective data protection in the context of artificial intelligence and big data. Big Data & Society , 10(1):20539517231166886, 2023. Ho Bae, Jaehee Jang, Dahuin Jung, Hyemi Jang, Heonseok Ha, Hyungyu Lee, and Sungroh Yoon. Security and privacy issues in deep learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.11655 , 2018. Andrea Alonso and Jeffrey J Siracuse. Protecting patient safety and privacy in the era of artificial intelligence. In 

Seminars in Vascular Surgery . Elsevier, 2023. James Curzon, Tracy Ann Kosa, Rajen Akalu, and Khalil El-Khatib. Privacy and artificial intelligence. IEEE Transactions on Artificial Intelligence , 2(2):96–108, 2021. Giammaria Giordano, Fabio Palomba, and Filomena Ferrucci. On the use of artificial intelligence to deal with privacy in iot systems: A systematic literature review. Journal of Systems and Software , 193:111475, 2022. Ayodeji Oseni, Nour Moustafa, Helge Janicke, Peng Liu, Zahir Tari, and Athanasios Vasilakos. Security and privacy for artificial intelligence: Opportunities and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.04661 , 2021. Yazan Alaya Al-Khassawneh. A review of artificial intelligence in security and privacy: Research advances, applications, opportunities, and challenges. Indonesian Journal of Science and Technology , 8(1):79–96, 2023. Oumaima Fadi, Zkik Karim, Boulmalf Mohammed, et al. A survey on blockchain and artificial intelligence technologies for enhancing security and privacy in smart environments. IEEE Access , 10:93168–93186, 2022. Meng Hao, Hongwei Li, Xizhao Luo, Guowen Xu, Haomiao Yang, and Sen Liu. Efficient and privacy-enhanced federated learning for industrial artificial intelligence. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics , 16(10):6532– 6542, 2019. 37 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Julien Cloarec. Privacy controls as an information source to reduce data poisoning in artificial intelligence-powered personalization. Journal of Business Research , 152:144–153, 2022. Fabio Martinelli, Fiammetta Marulli, Francesco Mercaldo, Stefano Marrone, and Antonella Santone. Enhanced privacy and data protection using natural language processing and artificial intelligence. In 2020 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN) , pages 1–8. IEEE, 2020. Shitharth Selvarajan, Gautam Srivastava, Alaa O Khadidos, Adil O Khadidos, Mohamed Baza, Ali Alshehri, and Jerry Chun-Wei Lin. An artificial intelligence lightweight blockchain security model for security and privacy in iiot systems. Journal of Cloud Computing , 12(1):38, 2023. Christian Meurisch, Bekir Bayrak, and Max Mühlhäuser. Privacy-preserving ai services through data decentralization. In Proceedings of The Web Conference 2020 , pages 190–200, 2020. Abdul Majeed, Safiullah Khan, and Seong Oun Hwang. Group privacy: An underrated but worth studying research problem in the era of artificial intelligence and big data. Electronics , 11(9):1449, 2022. Evangelos Pournaras, Mark Christopher Ballandies, Stefano Bennati, and Chien-fei Chen. Collective privacy recovery: Data-sharing coordination via decentralized artificial intelligence. PNAS nexus , 3(2):pgae029, 2024. Zhimin Zhang, Huansheng Ning, Fadi Farha, Jianguo Ding, and Kim-Kwang Raymond Choo. Artificial intelligence in physiological characteristics recognition for internet of things authentication. Digital Communications and Networks ,10(3):740–755, 2024b. Sagar Samtani, Murat Kantarcioglu, and Hsinchun Chen. A multi-disciplinary perspective for conducting artificial intelligence-enabled privacy analytics: Connecting data, algorithms, and systems. ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems (TMIS) , 12(1):1–18, 2021. Jose Ramon Saura, Domingo Ribeiro-Soriano, and Daniel Palacios-Marqués. Assessing behavioral data science privacy issues in government artificial intelligence deployment. Government Information Quarterly , 39(4):101679, 2022. Tianqing Zhu, Dayong Ye, Wei Wang, Wanlei Zhou, and S Yu Philip. More than privacy: Applying differential privacy in key areas of artificial intelligence. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 34(6):2824–2843, 2020. Tianqing Zhu and S Yu Philip. Applying differential privacy mechanism in artificial intelligence. In 2019 IEEE 39th international conference on distributed computing systems (ICDCS) , pages 1601–1609. IEEE, 2019. Jie Chen, Lakshmanan Ramanathan, and Mamoun Alazab. Holistic big data integrated artificial intelligent modeling to improve privacy and security in data management of smart cities. Microprocessors and Microsystems , 81:103722, 2021b. Ajay Bandi and Sowmya Yalamarthi. Towards artificial intelligence empowered security and privacy issues in 6g communications. In 2022 International Conference on Sustainable Computing and Data Communication Systems (ICSCDS) , pages 372–378. IEEE, 2022. Guangze Su, Jiufan Wang, Xiaonan Xu, Yufu Wang, and Cankun Wang. The utilization of homomorphic encryption technology grounded on artificial intelligence for privacy preservation. International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology , 2(1):52–58, 2024. Anamaria Vizitiu, Cosmin Ioan Nit ˇa, Andrei Puiu, Constantin Suciu, and Lucian Mihai Itu. Privacy-preserving artificial intelligence: application to precision medicine. In 2019 41st Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBC) , pages 6498–6504. IEEE, 2019. Nazish Khalid, Adnan Qayyum, Muhammad Bilal, Ala Al-Fuqaha, and Junaid Qadir. Privacy-preserving artificial intelligence in healthcare: Techniques and applications. Computers in Biology and Medicine , 158:106848, 2023. Qichao Xu, Zhou Su, and Ruidong Li. Security and privacy in artificial intelligence-enabled 6g. IEEE Network , 36(5): 188–196, 2022. Xiang Bai, Hanchen Wang, Liya Ma, Yongchao Xu, Jiefeng Gan, Ziwei Fan, Fan Yang, Ke Ma, Jiehua Yang, Song Bai, et al. Advancing covid-19 diagnosis with privacy-preserving collaboration in artificial intelligence. Nature Machine Intelligence , 3(12):1081–1089, 2021. Matt Bartlett. Beyond privacy: Protecting data interests in the age of artificial intelligence. Law, Technology and Humans , 3(1):96–108, 2021. James Peltz and Anita C Street. Artificial intelligence and ethical dilemmas involving privacy. In Artificial Intelligence and Global Security: Future Trends, Threats and Considerations , pages 95–120. Emerald Publishing Limited, 2020. David Elliott and Eldon Soifer. Ai technologies, privacy, and security. Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence , 5:826737, 2022. 38 Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Ecosystem A P REPRINT 

Chao Wang, Jieyu Zhang, Nicholas Lassi, and Xiaohan Zhang. Privacy protection in using artificial intelligence for healthcare: Chinese regulation in comparative perspective. In Healthcare , volume 10, page 1878. MDPI, 2022. Charlie Saillard, Rémy Dubois, Oussama Tchita, Nicolas Loiseau, Thierry Garcia, Aurélie Adriansen, Séverine Carpentier, Joelle Reyre, Diana Enea, Katharina von Loga, et al. Validation of msintuit as an ai-based pre-screening tool for msi detection from colorectal cancer histology slides. Nature Communications , 14(1):6695, 2023. Alexandre Filiot, Paul Jacob, Alice Mac Kain, and Charlie Saillard. Phikon-v2, a large and public feature extractor for biomarker prediction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.09173 , 2024. Rogério de Lemos and Marek Grze´ s. Self-adaptive artificial intelligence. In 2019 IEEE/ACM 14th International Symposium on Software Engineering for Adaptive and Self-Managing Systems (SEAMS) , pages 155–156. IEEE, 2019. 39