Title: Interactor: Agentic RL oriented Iterative Creation for Ad Description Generation in Sponsored Search

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.15911v1

Published Time: Tue, 16 Jun 2026 01:21:35 GMT

Number of Pages: 11

Markdown Content:
## INTERACTOR : Agentic RL oriented Iterative Creation for Ad Description Generation in Sponsored Search 

Penghui Wei, Jiayu Wu, Chao Ye, Zhi Guo, Shuanglong Li and Lin Liu 

Search Ads, Baidu Inc. 

{weipenghui,wujiayu01,yechao01,guozhi,lishuanglong,liulin03}@baidu.com 

Abstract 

This paper focuses on automatically generat-ing informative ad descriptions in sponsored search. Unlike ad titles which are usually op-timized to attract user click feedbacks, ad de-scriptions have a longer text span and possess the potential of incorporating world knowledge to address user search intents while present-ing the fine-grained selling points of the ads. We propose I NTERACTOR , a multi-turn itera-tive creation framework optimized with agentic RL for ad description generation. The genera-tion model acts as a policy that interacts with a customized environment consisting of mul-tiple generative reward models. Given initial generations by the policy, the customized Gen-RMs evaluate multi-dimensional qualities in-cluding knowledge capacity and landing page consistency, providing both binary signals and reasoning feedbacks. The policy then itera-tively refines the descriptions based on such feedbacks to ensure continuous improvement. Experiments on industrial datasets show that the I NTERACTOR framework significantly out-performs state-of-the-art approaches in generat-ing knowledge-rich and faithful ad descriptions. Since May 2026, it has been deployed online in a leading search ads system, contributing to both ad revenue and user experience. 

1 Introduction 

Search advertising plays a crucial role to bridge user intents and business services, which brings substantial revenue to search engine platforms. Ad-vertisers usually put a lot of effort into designing ad creatives (e.g., title, description and image) to clearly show the advantages of their services and attract potential audiences. With the rise of gener-ative models and AIGC techniques, extensive re-search proposed to automatically generate ad texts and images to improve click-through rate (CTR), achieving better delivery performance compared to the creatives provided by advertisers. Most work Can regularly eating black sesame improve 

> white hair?
> What's good for white hair? Our store
> has professional advice on white hair
> issues with experts on hand to explain.
> Click to enter for detailed consultation!
> Black sesame is rich in protein, which
> improves hair quality. Our store can
> provide professional hair follicle test
> for scienti fi cally address issues. Click
> to get customized advice!
> Does black sesame have the e ffect of improving
> white hair?
> Human-written
> Ad Description:
> LLM-generated
> Ad Description:
> flu ff y language
> knowledge-rich

Figure 1: An example of ad description with query ‘Can black sesame turn white hair black?’. Compared to title, it has a longer span and should be more informative. 

on ad text generation has focused on ad titles, while ad descriptions – which also occupy a large visual space and allow for more informative contents – remain underexplored. An ideal ad description that attracts user interests should exploit the superiority of longer text span, integrating both 1) relevant and appropriate world knowledge that matches user’s search intent, and 2) fine-grained selling points mined from landing pages to faithfully represent the advantages of services or products. As an open-ended generation task where there is no ground-truth ad description to be learned, the reinforcement learning paradigm that forms an al-ternate loop of collecting rollouts for exploration and optimizing policy with rewards for exploitation is a natural solution, especially for the online ad-vertising scenario where user preference is dynam-ically changed. The state-of-the-art approaches for ad text generation (Chen et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025) learn to generate titles achieving better qual-ity and higher CTR via preference optimization or RLHF, with implicit or explicit reward modeling to guide LLM training via scalar signals. However, 1

> arXiv:2606.15911v1 [cs.CL] 14 Jun 2026

the ad description generation task cannot directly adapt the approaches heavily relying on scalar re-wards during optimization. Compared to ad titles, ad descriptions are relatively long and must sat-isfy more quality constraints, thus the generated results inevitably suffer from various subtle inaccu-racies. Current approaches struggle to produce fine-grained guidance information for revising incorrect generations, and result in inefficient exploration due to low-quality rollouts. To tackle the above challenges, in this paper we propose I NTERACTOR , an agentic RL oriented iterative creation framework for informative ad description generation. 1 Compared to generating the final description in a single pass optimized by scalar rewards, the I NTERACTOR framework incor-porates a multi-turn iteration process, in which the LLM to be optimized for description generation is regarded as an agent that receives detailed feed-back from customized generative reward models to refine previous generations for improvement. Specifically, the LLM policy interacts with a customized environment consisting of GenRMs responsible for evaluating multi-dimensional quali-ties such as knowledge capacity and landing page consistency. After the initial descriptions generated by the policy, the GenRMs discriminate the genera-tions with binary signals and also provide detailed reasoning feedbacks (e.g., the reason why the ini-tial generations miss appropriate world knowledge related to user intent, or pointing out the unfaithful contents inconsistent with landing pages), based on the predefined rubrics summarized from busi-ness requirements. If the criteria are not met, the policy then iteratively refines the descriptions via incorporating such feedbacks into context to form a multi-turn iterative creation process. The policy is optimized via agentic RL with multi-dimensional rewards to ensure that the qualities of subsequent generations are continuous improvement. Since May 2026, the I NTERACTOR framework has been deployed online in a leading search ads system, contributing to both ad revenue and user experience. The main contributions are: • We identify the necessity to shift from CTR-driven title generation to informative descrip-tion generation in industrial practice, high-lighting the importance of explicitly modeling world knowledge to satisfy user intent.    

> 1INTERACTOR : Agent ic Rei nforcemen tLearning for AdDes crip tion Gene ration.

• We propose a multi-turn iteration framework INTERACTOR for ad description generation, in which the LLM policy is optimized via agen-tic RL with customized generative rewards to achieve continuous improvement on knowl-edge capacity and landing page consistency. • Experiments on industrial datasets show that the I NTERACTOR framework significantly outperforms state-of-the-art single-turn ap-proaches in generating knowledge-rich and faithful ad descriptions. Online A/B test veri-fies its effectiveness in improving ad revenue and user experience. 

2 Problem Definition 

We introduce the task definition of ad description generation in sponsored search. Given a user search query xuser and an ad’s landing page information 

xad , the task’s objective is to learn a generation policy πθ(y | xuser , x ad ) that outputs an informa-tive description y satisfying quality requirements as well as achieving higher CTR, taking both user experience and advertiser value into account. 2

The quality is evaluated by the two dimensions. 1) Knowledge capacity: as a long-form text (com-pared to ad title), the ad description y is expected to contain world knowledge that is relevant to user search intent xuser for improving informativeness. 2) Landing page consistency: the ad description 

y’s detailed content that represents the advantages of services or products must be strictly entailed by the landing page information xad , without any unfaithful exaggerations that mislead users. 

3 Methodology: The I NTERACTOR 

Framework 

Unlike current ad text generation approaches which generate the results in a single-turn process, the INTERACTOR framework formulates the descrip-tion generation process as multi-turn iteration op-timized with agentic RL, where the LLM policy interacts with a customized environment that pro-vides detailed feedbacks about content quality for continuous improvement. Our framework pos-sesses the ability of refining incorrect expressions with fine-grained feedbacks, which is suitable for open-ended, long-form ad description generation.    

> 2In practice, to provide more useful information as model input, we also use keyword (retrieved based on user query) and metadata of the ad (such as the name of the advertiser) to supplement xuser and xad , respectively.

2LLM policy Environment      

> User Query: The e ffi cacy of Blue Butter fl y Flower Tea
> Ad Landing Page: Professional and reliable AI doctor, instant
> response, medication consultation, health assistant, …
> Task Input
> <think> …inquire background info… </think>
> <retrieve> Retrieve relevant knowledge of ‘The
> effi cacy of Blue Butter fl y Flower Tea’ <retrieve>
> … treats sore throat … has a certain e ffect
> of clearing heat and detoxifying …
> <think> …generate initial candidate... </think>
> <create> It clears heat and detoxify. Our AI
> Doctor provides scienti fi c answers for you,
> professionally analyzes fl ower tea’s taboos ,
> and helps you use medication! <create>
> <reward> …check content quality…<reward>
> LP consistency is Fail: The ‘Our AI doctor
> analyzes fl ower tea’ is an incorrect phrase.
> <think> …re fi ne based on reasons... </think>
> <create> It clears heat and detoxify, and relieves
> pain. Our AI Doctor is always ready to answer your
> health questions , provide professional medication
> advice, and safeguard your health! <create>
> Search the Web
> Generative RMs
> CTR Reward
> Policy
> Improvement
> Multi-turn
> Rollouts
> Rewards Policy
> Evaluation
> Policy Gradient
> Agent
> Advantage Estimation

a1

a2

a3

o1

o2Figure 2: The overall workflow of the I NTERACTOR 

framework for generating informative ad descriptions. 

3.1 Formulation: Multi-Turn Iteration 

Figure 2 shows the overview of I NTERACTOR ,where an LLM policy interacts with the customized environment to produce final generation. Formally, the initial context consists of cus-tomized task prompt xtask and inputs {xuser , x ad }.The task prompt xtask strictly structures the LLM policy’s output format of each turn into two parts: 1. A thinking process (enclosed in special tokens 

<think> </think> ) that understands context including task inputs and environment’s ob-servations from previous turns; 2. A response that reflects a real action , which may request search engine (enclosed in 

<retrieve> </retrieve> ) for injecting rele-vant world knowledge, generate ad descrip-tion based on all turns’ contexts (enclosed in <create> </create> ), and request reward models (enclosed in <reward> </reward> )for fine-grained evaluation and refinement. At the t-th turn, the LLM policy takes an action 

at (thinking and response) based on the context 

ct = ([ xtask ; xuser ; xad ], a 1, o 1, . . . , a t−1, o t−1),3

then receives an observation ot (e.g., retrieved knowledge and reasoning information of rewards) from the environment and also a reward rt (multi-dimensional evaluations of qualities and CTR) if the action is generation. The objective is to opti-mize the policy πθ(y | xuser , x ad ) guided by the reward signals with policy gradient. 

> 3

For the first turn, the context c1 = ([ xtask ; xuser ; xad ]) .

3.2 The Customized Environment for Ad Description Generation 

To perform multi-turn iteration, we design a cus-tomized environment that provides observations to the learned policy through generative reward models and knowledge retrieval engine. 

3.2.1 Rewards: Hybrid of Rubric-based Generative RMs and Human Feedback Rubric-based GenRMs for Quality. To evaluate the qualities and also guide further refinement, we build two generative reward models for knowledge capacity and landing page consistency – the main dimensions of content quality – based on prede-fined rubrics to transform open-ended evaluation to verifiable signals (Kim et al., 2024; Gunjal et al., 2026). Unlike current state-of-the-art ad text gen-eration approaches which only guide RLHF via scalar rewards, our GenRMs produce both binary signals and fine-grained reasoning information. Beyond scalar rewards for exploitation, the de-tailed feedbacks facilitate next turn’s refinement of ad descriptions, directly contributing to high-quality rollouts for efficient exploration. As shown in Figure 2, for knowledge capacity, the GenRM returns the reason why the initial description miss appropriate world knowledge that matches user in-tent. And for landing page consistency, it points out unfaithful phrases that mislead users. Specifically, for each quality dimension, we first summarize the rubrics consisting of multiple verifi-able rules according to business requirements, and then prompt frontier black-box LLM with few-shot in-context learning to obtain 1) binary result of the reward, if and only if all rubrics are satisfied then the quality reward is 1, and 2) fine-grained rea-soning information that explains the improvement directions for a given description. The predefined rubrics, prompts and other details of the GenRMs can be found in Appendix B.1. 

CTR Estimation with Human Feedback. To eval-uate the attractiveness of generated descriptions, we build a CTR estimation model trained on the online logs of user feedbacks in our search ads system. It serves as a reward that produces a real number rCTR 

t ∈ (0 , 1) as the predicted CTR given both task inputs and a generated description. To capture the dynamics of user preference, the CTR estimation model is updated incrementally in a daily fashion. For each day we continually train the model via loading previous day’s checkpoint and optimizing parameters with fresh data. 33.2.2 Observations: Reasoning from GenRMs and Knowledge from Search Engine 

The description generation model acts as an LLM policy πθ(· | ct) that interacts with the environment to receive observations to augment contexts for fur-ther actions. The text observation ot is typically the reasoning information of GenRMs for quality eval-uation and refinement, or the retrieved knowledge from the search engine for generating contents that satisfy user search intent. 

Reasoning from Quality GenRMs. For a turn with the context ct, if the policy’s action at is to gen-erate a description, the GenRMs will be requested to provide both scalar signals and reasoning infor-mation with fine-grained feedbacks about incorrect phrases in the description. Such reasoning informa-tion is used as observation ot to augment next turn’s context ct+1 , guiding the policy to inject missing world knowledge or modify unfaithful contents that are inconsistent with the landing page. 

Retrieved Knowledge from Search Engine. The policy’s action at may request the search engine (triggered by generating content in <retrieve> </retrieve> ) to retrieve relevant knowledge based on the search query xuser (usually at the first turn), which helps the generated ad description contain appropriate world knowledge that matches user search intent. Such retrieved knowledge is regarded as observation ot to augment next turn’s context 

ct+1 , which can be regarded as the supplement of landing page information. 4

Specifically, we use our in-house search engine, which indexes a massive corpus of encyclopedic web pages and thus is highly well-suited for acquir-ing world knowledge. Given the search query xuser ,the document of the top-1 retrieved web page is used as the knowledge to augment context. 

3.3 Agentic RL for Optimizing Description Generation Policy 

For each turn t, the description generation model takes an action at ∼ πθ(· | ct) based on the context 

ct containing task inputs, previous actions and ob-servations. It is expected that at subsequent turns the policy can generate descriptions with better quality and higher CTR given the fine-grained rea-soning from the environment. 

> 4Although the base LLM of the generation model stores world knowledge implicitly in the parameters, in practice we found that requesting our in-house search engine to explicitly enhance model’s context can achieve better generation results.

3.3.1 Multi-Turn Rollouts 

Based on the iterative creation nature, each episode constitutes a multi-turn rollout sequence τ =([ xtask ; xuser ; xad ], a 1, o 1, r 1, . . . , a T , o T , r T ),where each action’s token sequence structure contains a thinking sequence and a response sequence (Yao et al., 2023), and the final generated description of the LLM policy is extracted from the the response part of the last turn’s action aT .Specifically, at subsequent turns, the LLM policy generates descriptions that refine incorrect phrases with the help of the reasoning information from the environment. As shown in Figure 2, the subse-quent turn successfully refines the initial descrip-tion via modifying unfaithful phrase and also in-jecting knowledge guided by the detailed feedback, achieving improvement via iterative creation. Here the reward signal rt is the weighted sum of quality rewards and predicted CTR: 

rt = X

> ∗∈{ KC ,LP ,CTR }

w∗ · r∗ 

> t

(1) where rKC  

> t

/ rLP  

> t

denotes the binary signal from the GenRM of knowledge capacity / landing page consistency, and rCTR  

> t

denotes the predicted CTR, with their factors w∗.

3.3.2 Optimization 

We use group sequence policy optimization (GSPO) (Zheng et al., 2025) to learn the LLM pol-icy, which is critic-free (Shao et al., 2024) and defines sequence-level importance ratio to match the rewarding granularity. Formally, we maximize: 

E 

> {τ(i)}G
> 1=1 ∼πθold

 1

G

> G

X

> i=1

πθ(τ (i))

πθold (τ (i))

! 1 

> |τ(i)|

A(i)norm 



(2) here we omit detailed clip operation and KL term for simplification. The advantage A(i)norm of each rollout sequence τ (i) per prompt is computed using the last turn’s reward r(i) 

> T

via group-based estima-tion of G rollouts and global normalization in each training step’s data Dstep (Hu et al., 2025): 

A(i)norm = Norm 



Norm (r(i) 

> T

| i ∈ [1 , G ]) | D step 



.

(3) Note that in a rollout sequence τ , a token may be generated by the LLM policy (i.e., at), and may be provided by the environment (i.e., ot) and may also be the task input (i.e., [xtask ; xuser ; xad ]). Thus dur-ing policy gradient computation, we only reserve action tokens while masking the others. 44 Experiments 

4.1 Experimental Setup Dataset Construction To verify the effectiveness of I NTERACTOR in real-world systems, and to our knowledge there is no open-sourced benchmark for ad description, 5 we conduct experiments on a large-scale proprietary dataset collected from our search ads system, operating as a core component of a leading search engine in Chinese. We sample the impression log of search ads to obtain 1 millions of user-ad pairs as the training set, and hold-out 5k / 10k pairs as the validation / test set where the impression time is strictly later than training data. 

Evaluation Metrics We thoroughly evaluate the generations with five dimensions: 1) Basic quality :measures whether the content contains basic errors such as wrongly-written characters / punctuations and repetitive phrases. 2) Informativeness : indi-cates whether the description contains knowledge relevant to user query. 3) Faithfulness : indicates the landing page consistency. 4) Attractiveness :reflects whether the user intends to click on. 5) Diversity : measures the content similarity across multiple candidates. More details of the evaluation process are listed in Appendix B.2. 

Competitors We use the state-of-the-art ap-proaches of ad text generation, as well as our best-performed production model as baselines: • CTOP (Chen et al., 2025) and D IVER (Wang et al., 2025): the best-performed approaches for ad title generation via preference optimiza-tion and RLHF respectively to jointly opti-mize quality and CTR. We directly adopt them to perform description generation task. • SINGLE -TURN RL: the best-performed pro-duction policy of our system that incorporates the same knowledge retrieval and reward de-sign as I NTERACTOR . It is optimized via single-turn RL and thus generates the final description without iteration. 

Implementation Details For fair comparison, we unify the base model as Qwen3-30B-A3B (Qwen, 2025), and employ GSPO for all RL-based com-petitors. We choose Slime (Zhu et al., 2025) and 

SGLang (Zheng et al., 2024) as the post-training and inference framework, respectively. Appendix B.3 lists more details.                           

> 5Current open-sourced benchmark of ad text generation focuses on ad title (Mita et al., 2024).
> Approach Basic. Info. Faith. Attract. Div. CTOP 0.989 0.274 0.634 7.8% 0.662 DIVER 0.985 0.359 0.724 11.0% 0.684 SINGLE -TURN RL 0.986 0.693 0.726 12.3% 0.715 INTERACTOR 0.986 0.715 0.872 12.4% 0.732
> Table 1: Main results of basic quality, informativeness, faithfulness, attractiveness and diversity.

4.2 Main Results 

Table 1 illustrates the evaluation results of all com-pared approaches. For each input we generate ten candidates, and report Average@10 as the results. The superiority of RL-based approaches com-pared to C TOP shows that learning from pre-collected static data with preference optimization is sub-optimal in open-ended ad description gen-eration task, especially for the attractiveness met-ric which is measured by predicted CTR that re-flects user’s dynamic interests. For the informative-ness metric, both I NTERACTOR and our produc-tion model S INGLE -TURN RL outperform other competitors by a large margin, demonstrating that explicitly incorporating world knowledge is crucial for generating high-quality descriptions that satisfy user intent, which reveals the essential difference between ad description and ad title. The I NTERACTOR framework significantly out-performs other competitors on the whole, espe-cially for the faithfulness metric which is crucial but difficult to optimize for ad text. The results verify the effectiveness of the multi-turn iterative creation for optimizing landing page consistency with the help of fine-grained reasoning information, and also indicate that the optimization paradigm of agentic RL possesses the ability of improving various metrics simultaneously. 

4.3 Discussion Effects of Multi-turn Iteration During the in-ference stage of I NTERACTOR , we also extract the generated description from the penultimate turn and report the metrics in Table 2. We can see that the last turn always beat the penultimate turn on most metrics, demonstrating that the iterative cre-ation process brings continuous improvement on description quality. Moreover, the penultimate turn still outperforms S INGLE -TURN RL, which shows that the agentic RL framework indeed learns to generate better descriptions other than suppressing previous turns for final improvement. 5Approach Basic. Info. Faith. Attract. INTERACTOR 0.986 0.715 0.872 12.4% penultimate 0.982 0.694 0.798 12.5% 

w/o reasoning 0.985 0.636 0.706 12.3% smaller GenRMs 0.985 0.692 0.861 12.3% 

Table 2: Ablation studies of multi-turn iteration, reason-ing, and GenRM choice for the I NTERACTOR .

Ablation of Reasoning for Rollouts We further verify the effectiveness of the detailed reasoning information from the environment. Specifically, we train an LLM policy which omits the guide of rea-soning information from the GenRMs and performs multi-turn rollouts based on the binary signals only. As the results of “w/o reasoning” in Table 2, the performance drops dramatically, which reveals that the conclusive factor of I NTERACTOR ’s iterative creation process is the fine-grained feedbacks of the GenRMs and indicates the effectiveness of the overall multi-turn framework. 

Sensitivity to Model Choice of GenRMs Based on the above results, we take a next step that ana-lyze the sensitivity of the performance to the model choice of GenRMs. We replace the GenRMs from the Qwen3-30B-A3B (Qwen, 2025) to the smaller-sized Qwen3-8B with same prompts. 6 The results of “smaller GenRMs” in Table 2 verify that our framework is not very sensitive to the choice of GenRMs, however stronger GenRMs can further improve the performance of generated descriptions on multiple metrics. 

4.4 Case Analysis 

In Table 3 we qualitatively analyze the generated result. We observe that the subsequent turn suc-cessfully refines the initial description via mod-ifying unfaithful phrase from “free shipping” 

to “door-to-door delivery” , guided by the de-tailed feedback “The selling point of ‘free shipping’ mentioned in the candidate is not found in the ad information with a similar meaning” from the GenRMs, and also injecting knowledge “essential to consider keyboard quality, feel, and brand reputation” relevant to user query, achiev-ing a significant quality improvement via reasoning guided iterative creation. 

> 6

More details are in Appendix B.3.                                                                  

> Input User Query :电钢琴型号推荐(Recommended electric piano models)
> Landing Page :家用 电 钢琴各种型号,雅马哈/美得
> 理厂家直销原装联保,便携式可折叠/重锤,考级/初
> 学/儿童/成人,送上门... (Various home electric pianos, Yamaha/Mededi factory direct sales, original packaging and warranty, portable and foldable/heavy hammer, exami-nation/beginner/children/adult, door-to-door delivery...) Action a1检索“电钢琴型号推荐”相关知识(Retrieve relevant knowledge of ’Recommended electric piano models’) Observation
> o1
> ... 初学者买电钢,首先考虑口碑和声誉,选购时需亲
> 自体验手感,音质也是不能忽略的因素... (...For be-ginners of purchasing an electric piano, it is important to first consider its reputation and word-of-mouth, essential to personally experience the feel of the keys. The sound quality is also a factor that cannot be ignored...) Action a2电钢琴型号推荐!雅马哈等品牌热销,重锤键 盘专业
> 级手感,初学考级皆适用.原装正品,快递包邮,便携折
> 叠款可选.限时优惠购! (Recommended electric piano models! Popular brands such as Yamaha, featuring heavy-hammer keyboards for professional-level touch, suitable for beginners and grade exams. Genuine products, free shipping via express delivery, and portable folding models available. Limited-time discount!) Observation
> o2
> 知识化程度不通过：检索到电钢选购知识,但未体现
> 在描述中｜落地页一致性不通过：卖点"包邮"的原意
> 及类似含义未出现在广告信息中。(Knowledge capac-ity is fail: Knowledge about electric piano was retrieved, but it was not integrated. | LP consistency is fail: The selling point of ‘free shipping’ mentioned in the candidate is not found in the ad information with a similar meaning.) Action a3新手选购电钢需兼顾键盘质量,手感及品牌口碑!热销
> 雅马哈等品牌,重锤键 盘模拟真实手感,适合初学考
> 级.原装联保,快递上楼,便携折叠设计 ,限时优惠! (For beginners of electric pianos, it’s essential to consider key-board quality, feel, and brand reputation! Popular brands like Yamaha offer heavy-hammer keyboards simulating real touch, ideal for beginners and grade exams. With original warranty, door-to-door delivery, portable folding design, and limited-time discounts!)

Table 3: Case analysis. We omit the sequence enclosed in <think> </think> for simplification. Contents in the parentheses are the results translated to English. 

4.5 Online A/B Test and Human Evaluation 

We conduct online A/B test in our search ads sys-tem, and the experiment covers more than 140k advertisers. Results verify that I NTERACTOR con-tributes to both ad revenue ( +0.74% ) and user ex-perience (top-grade rate +7pp of overall content quality in human evaluation). More details are in Appendix A. Since May 2026, it is deployed online to serve the main traffic. 

5 Conclusion 

We identify the necessity to shift from generat-ing CTR-driven ad title to informative ad descrip-tion in industrial practice, highlighting the impor-tance of explicitly modeling world knowledge to satisfy user intent. We propose I NTERACTOR , a multi-turn iteration framework optimized via agen-tic RL to achieve continuous improvement on multi-dimensional evaluations. Online A/B test verifies its effectiveness in improving ad revenue and user experience for industry-scale system. 66 Ethical Considerations 

When we apply AIGC technologies for online ad-vertising business, both content security and user privacy protection are crucial. We make the fol-lowing efforts to ensure only secure contents will be pushed online and alleviate potential privacy risks: 1) We only generate ad descriptions for the advertisers who have submitted authorization to our advertising platform. 2) We have a strict risk con-trolling process before deployment, which ensures the content security via a large number (over 100+) of rules such as deleting harmful results and rule-breaking contents. 3) Our algorithm does not incor-porate any user privacy information (such as age and gender), which is not collected in the dataset. 

7 Limitations 

Our proposed framework focuses on automatic ad description generation that provides high-quality candidates to advertisers, however the corpora of advertiser-written descriptions are not explicitly ex-ploited during our framework development (they only implicitly contribute to the development of GenRMs). We suggest that our environment pos-sesses the ability of providing editing suggestion for them, and thus how to mine the value of human-written corpora and build a human-in-the-loop op-timization paradigm for ad text generation is a promising direction for further research. 

References 

Yanda Chen, Zihui Ren, Qixiang Gao, Jiale Chen, Si Chen, Xubin Li, Tiezheng Ge, and Bo Zheng. 2025. CTR-driven ad text generation via online feedback preference optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.20227 .DeepSeek-AI. 2025. DeepSeek-V3.2: Pushing the fron-tier of open large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.02556 .GLM. 2026. GLM-5: from vibe coding to agentic engineering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.15763 .Anisha Gunjal, Anthony Wang, Elaine Lau, Vaskar Nath, Yunzhong He, Bing Liu, and Sean M Hendryx. 2026. Rubrics as rewards: Reinforcement learning beyond verifiable domains. In International Confer-ence on Learning Representations .Ari Holtzman, Jan Buys, Li Du, Maxwell Forbes, and Yejin Choi. 2020. The curious case of neural text de-generation. In International Conference on Learning Representations .Jian Hu, Jason Klein Liu, Haotian Xu, and Wei Shen. 2025. REINFORCE++: Stabilizing critic-free policy optimization with global advantage normalization. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.03262 .J Weston Hughes, Keng-hao Chang, and Ruofei Zhang. 2019. Generating better search engine text adver-tisements with deep reinforcement learning. In Pro-ceedings of the 25th ACM SIGKDD international conference on knowledge discovery & data mining ,pages 2269–2277. Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Jinsung Yoon, Sercan O Arik, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and Jiawei Han. 2025. Search-R1: Training LLMs to reason and leverage search engines with reinforce-ment learning. In Second Conference on Language Modeling .Hidetaka Kamigaito, Peinan Zhang, Hiroya Takamura, and Manabu Okumura. 2021. An empirical study of generating texts for search engine advertising. In 

Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: Industry Papers , pages 255–262. Yashal Shakti Kanungo, Sumit Negi, and Aruna Ra-jan. 2021. Ad headline generation using self-critical masked language model. In Proceedings of the 2021 conference of the north American chapter of the as-sociation for computational linguistics: human lan-guage technologies: industry papers , pages 263–271. Seungone Kim, Jay Shin, Joel Jang, Shayne Long-pre, Hwaran Lee, Sangdoo Yun, Ryan Shin, Sung-dong Kim, James Thorne, and Minjoon Seo. 2024. Prometheus: Inducing fine-grained evaluation capa-bility in language models. In International Confer-ence on Learning Representations .Kimi. 2025. Kimi K2: Open agentic intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.20534 .MiniMax. 2026. The MiniMax-M2 series: Mini activa-tions unleashing max real-world intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.26494 .Masato Mita, Soichiro Murakami, Akihiko Kato, and Peinan Zhang. 2024. Striking gold in advertising: Standardization and exploration of ad text generation. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 955–972. Qwen. 2025. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 .Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christo-pher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2023. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model. Advances in neural information processing systems , 36:53728–53741. 

7Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu, Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang, Mingchuan Zhang, YK Li, Y Wu, and Daya Guo. 2024. DeepSeekMath: Pushing the limits of mathematical reasoning in open language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03300 .Tianxiao Shen, Myle Ott, Michael Auli, and Marc’Aurelio Ranzato. 2019. Mixture models for diverse machine translation: Tricks of the trade. In 

International conference on machine learning , pages 5719–5728. PMLR. Chang Wang, Siyu Yan, Depeng Yuan, Yuqi Chen, Yanhua Huang, Yuanhang Zheng, Shuhao Li, Yinqi Zhang, Kedi Chen, Mingrui Zhu, and Ruiwen Xu. 2025. Beyond quality: Unlocking diversity in ad headline generation with large language models. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.18739 .Xiting Wang, Xinwei Gu, Jie Cao, Zihua Zhao, Yulan Yan, Bhuvan Middha, and Xing Xie. 2021. Rein-forcing pretrained models for generating attractive text advertisements. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM SIGKDD conference on knowledge discovery & data mining , pages 3697–3707. Yongzhen Wang, Jian Wang, Heng Huang, Hongsong Li, and Xiaozhong Liu. 2020. Evolutionary prod-uct description generation: A dynamic fine-tuning approach leveraging user click behavior. In Proceed-ings of the 43rd International ACM SIGIR Confer-ence on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , pages 119–128. Penghui Wei. 2025. IDEATION: Diversifying ad text generation in sponsored search with latent diffusion. In Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Con-ference 2025 , pages 1394–1397. Penghui Wei, Xuanhua Yang, Shaoguo Liu, Liang Wang, and Bo Zheng. 2022. CREATER: CTR-driven adver-tising text generation with controlled pre-training and contrastive fine-tuning. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies: Industry Track , pages 9–17. Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations .Yanzhao Zhang, Mingxin Li, Dingkun Long, Xin Zhang, Huan Lin, Baosong Yang, Pengjun Xie, An Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Junyang Lin, and 1 others. 2025. Qwen3 embedding: Advancing text embedding and reranking through foundation models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.05176 .Chujie Zheng, Shixuan Liu, Mingze Li, Xiong-Hui Chen, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Kai Dang, Yuqiong Liu, Rui Men, An Yang, Jingren Zhou, and Jun-yang Lin. 2025. Group sequence policy optimization. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.18071 .Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, Hao Zhang, Joseph Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Judging LLM-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. 

Advances in neural information processing systems ,36:46595–46623. Lianmin Zheng, Liangsheng Yin, Zhiqiang Xie, Chuyue Sun, Jeff Huang, Cody H Yu, Shiyi Cao, Christos Kozyrakis, Ion Stoica, Joseph E Gonzalez, Clark Barrett, and Ying Sheng. 2024. SGLang: Efficient execution of structured language model programs. 

Advances in neural information processing systems ,37:62557–62583. Zilin Zhu, Chengxing Xie, Xin Lv, and slime Contrib-utors. 2025. Slime: An LLM post-training frame-work for RL scaling. https://github.com/THUDM/ slime . GitHub repository. Corresponding author: Xin Lv. Daniel M Ziegler, Nisan Stiennon, Jeffrey Wu, Tom B Brown, Alec Radford, Dario Amodei, Paul Chris-tiano, and Geoffrey Irving. 2019. Fine-tuning lan-guage models from human preferences. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.08593 .

A Details of Online A/B Test and Human Evaluation 

The online A/B test is conducted in our search ads system. During the experiment period, the experi-ment group covered over 140k advertisers and ac-cumulated over 60 millions of ad impressions. The descriptions from I NTERACTOR are generated with offline batching inference (two candidates per ad), and during real-time auction phase the results are retrieved through a KV database. Results show that the experiment group achieves a relative improve-ment of +0.74% on ad revenue (note that +0.5% can be regarded as a large improvement), verifying that I NTERACTOR accurately captures user pref-erence to obtain more click feedbacks. Note that before online experiment, all generated descrip-tions are fed into a strict risk controlling process that deletes unsecured contents. Human evaluation for user experience is a cru-cial step before deploying a new algorithm online. We have a strict in-house criterion that defines top-grade description. For experiment and control groups, we randomly sample 400 descriptions per group for human evaluation. Results show that the generated descriptions of I NTERACTOR perform significantly better than the control group with an improvement of +7pp on top-grade rate, demon-strating that our policy achieves better user experi-ence compared to previous production policy. 8B Implementation Details 

B.1 The Generative RMs in the Environment 

We build the GenRMs of knowledge capacity and landing page consistency based on predefined rubrics that transform open-ended evaluation to ver-ifiable signals. For each GenRM, we first summa-rize the rubrics according to business requirements, and then prompt Qwen3-30B-A3B (Qwen, 2025) to obtain 1) binary result of the reward, and 2) fine-grained feedback as reasoning information that ex-plains the improvement directions for a given de-scription. Table 4 lists the predefined rubrics and prompts of the GenRMs. The prompt is optimized via a continual check of the consistency between the GenRM and human annotator, and finally the consistency rate is above 0.8 on randomly sampled 200 examples, verifying their usability. For the CTR estimation model, we use the 

Qwen3-Embedding-0.6B (Zhang et al., 2025) as base model with an extra classification head to discriminate click or unclick, 7 where the input con-tains both xuser , x ad and a generated description. We then perform continually training on the user click logs of our search ads system. The AUC on test set is above 0.7, verifying its usability. 

B.2 Evaluation Metrics 

To evaluate basic quality, informativeness and faith-fulness of generated descriptions, we employ the LLM-as-a-Judge method (Zheng et al., 2023) via prompting DeepSeek-V3.2 (DeepSeek-AI, 2025) to return binary results. For basic quality, Table 5 shows the prompt. For informativeness and faithful-ness, we use the same prompts of the GenRMs for knowledge capacity and landing page consistency to perform evaluation, as shown in Table 4. To evaluate attractiveness, we use the same train-ing method of the CTR estimation model, used in policy learning, to train a larger-sized model based on Qwen3-Embedding-8B to perform evaluation. To evaluate the diversity of multiple generations, we use 1 − PairwiseBLEU (Shen et al., 2019) that measures the similarity across K candidates 

{yi}i=1: K per input ( K = 10 in our experiment): 

PairwiseBLEU = 1

K(K − 1) 

X

> i̸=j

BLEU( yi, y j ) .

(4) 

> 7We do not employ the token probability of ‘yes’ or ‘no’ because a pointwise CTR prediction model should meet the calibration condition, which produces probabilistic predictions reflecting true likelihoods.

B.3 Policy Learning and Inference 

We use Slime (Zhu et al., 2025) for training with 8 × NVIDIA H800 GPUs, and the base model is 

Qwen3-30B-A3B . For the environment, we deploy a remote server for the reward models, and request our in-house search engine with internal API. The maximum turn is set to 3, and the group size is 8. The factors of multiple rewards are set to 1, 2 and 5. We configure fully asynchronous to acceleration and employ routing replay (Zheng et al., 2025) to stabilize MoE training. For fair comparison, all competitors use the same set of 100k synthesized descriptions by DeepSeek-V3.2 for cold-start SFT. Table 6 lists the task prompt of I NTERACTOR .We use SGLang (Zheng et al., 2024) for efficient offline batching inference. For each input we gener-ate multiple candidates with top-p sampling (Holtz-man et al., 2020). Although it seems that I NTERAC - 

> TOR

increases inference cost compared to the base-line, its computation resource utilization has been improved in industrial deployment. The baseline’s deployment is that it first generates descriptions and then requests post-processing models to filter out unqualified results, thus the resource consumed by the filtered results is wasted. The I NTERACTOR 

essentially transfers post-processing into multi-turn iteration and eliminates extra post-processing, ulti-mately achieving more qualified results. 

C Related Work 

Recent ad text generation approaches gradually evolve from small models (Hughes et al., 2019; Wang et al., 2020; Kamigaito et al., 2021; Kanungo et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2021; Wei et al., 2022) to large models (Mita et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2025; Wei, 2025) with preference opti-mization (Rafailov et al., 2023) or RLHF (Ziegler et al., 2019) to achieve better performance. As the pioneer work, Chen et al. (2025) pre-collected static preference data to achieve higher CTR, and Wang et al. (2025) proposed to jointly optimize diversity, quality and CTR via multi-objective RLHF. However, current work focuses on ad title, while approaches for high-quality ad de-scription remain underexplored. We point out the necessity to shift to knowledge-rich ad description, and inspired by agentic systems (Yao et al., 2023) and agentic RL paradigm (Jin et al., 2025; GLM, 2026; MiniMax, 2026; Kimi, 2025) we propose a practical framework via multi-turn iteration in industrial-scale search ads system. 9Quality Dimension Prompt Knowledge Capacity ### Evaluation Criteria Given the ad landing page information, the retrieved content via searching web pages based on the user query, and the candidate description, please evaluate strictly based on the following rules and provide a judgment of "pass" or "fail". ### Dimension: Knowledge Capacity 1. The definition of world knowledge is: any knowledge that meets any of the following conditions: • Explain professional knowledge such as definitions, backgrounds, principles, and concepts (e.g., introduce "what is xx", "why is xx", "what are the symptoms of xx disease", etc.). • Describe the characteristics / attributes / applicable scenarios / mechanism of action / working principle / efficacy, etc. of things. • Popularize the objective impact of objects/behaviors. • Provide a neutral reference (e.g., "Usually, solutions to such problems include categories A, B, and C"). ### Execution steps Step 1: Confirm whether the candidate description contains **knowledge from the retrieved content** Step 2: If there is **knowledge from the retrieved content**, determine: Rule 2.1: The contained knowledge meets the definition of world knowledge Rule 2.2: The knowledge is consistent with the services that can be provided on the landing page The knowledge capacity is considered to be passed **only when both of the above rules are met** Step 3: If there is **no knowledge from the retrieved content**, determine: Rule 3.1: the retrieved content is null Rule 3.2: Inconsistency between the brand/platform/software/app/website/organization/company mentioned in the retrieved content and the landing page As long as **either of the above two conditions is met**, the level of knowledge is considered as passed ### Output format Structured output format: Output strictly in accordance with the following JSON format, without any additional text: {"assessment": { "knowledge_capacity": { "verdict": "Pass/Fail", "reason": "First, determine whether there is knowledge from the retrieved content in the candidate description. Then, based on this, briefly provide specific reasons for judging whether the degree of knowledge capacity has been achieved." }}}

Landing Page Consis-tency 

### Task Description You are a professional ad description evaluation expert, skilled in rigorously assessing the content quality. Your task is to conduct an assessment of [Landing Page Consistency] based on all the rules, and provide a conclusion of "Pass" or "Fail". ### Evaluation Criteria Check whether the content in the candidate ad description can be supported by the provided landing page information. **The criteria of Pass: the following rules must be met simultaneously.** 1. **Functional authenticity**: All **specific functions, services, data, effects, offers, prices, parameters, and time-sensitive commitments** mentioned in the description (such as "free trial", "efficiency improvement by 50%", "buy one get one free", "24-hour customer service") must be found **with completely identical or equivalent expressions** in landing page. 2. **Brand consistency**: All **brand, company, organization, website, and App names** mentioned in the description (whether owned by the advertiser or its partners) must appear in landing page. ### The evaluation steps you must follow 1. Deconstruction: Carefully read the Candidate Description and list each item one by one: • **All function points** (Function Point 1, Function Point 2, Function Point 3...) • **All brand mentions** (Brand 1, Brand 2, Brand 3...) 2. Validation: • For each **feature**, search and verify in the landing page. Record the basis found, or mark "not found". • For each **brand**, search and verify in the landing page. Record the basis found, or mark "not found". 3. Adjudication: • If **all functional points have been justified**, then ’function_verdict’ = "Pass"; otherwise, ’function_verdict’ = "Fail". • If **all brands have been justified**, then ’brand_verdict’ = "Pass"; otherwise, ’brand_verdict’ = "Fail". 4. Conclusion: The final conclusion is **"Pass" only when both ’function_verdict’ and ’brand_verdict’ are "Pass". ### Important Principles • **No Assumptions**: Even if you believe a certain feature is reasonable or common, as long as you cannot find a clear basis in the provided landing page, you must determine it as "Fail". • **No external knowledge allowed**: Your judgment must be 100% based on the input information given above. • **Synonym judgment**: For functional points, different expressions are allowed, but the core meaning must be exactly the same (e.g., "3-year warranty" and "warranty period of 36 months" can be considered synonymous). ### Output format Structured Output Format: Output strictly in accordance with the following JSON format, without any additional text: {"assessment": { "landing_page_consistency": { "function_verdict": "Pass/Fail", "function_reason": "List how you conducted comparative judgments on the functional level, what evidence you found, or which functional point you could not find evidence for.", "brand_verdict": "Pass/Fail", "brand_reason": "List how you conducted comparative judgments on the brand level, what evidence you found, or which brand you mentioned but could not find evidence for.", }}}

Table 4: Predefined rubrics and prompts for the GenRMs. Translated to English. 

10 Quality Dimension Prompt Basic Quality ### Task Description You are a professional ad description evaluation expert, skilled in rigorously assessing the content quality. Your task is to evaluate the [basic quality] based on all the rules, and provide a conclusion of either "Pass" or "Fail". ### Evaluation Criteria Check whether the content in the candidate ad description meets the standards, with a focus on the following common language issues: 1. Redundancy: Words, phrases, or sentences that are redundant (e.g., "Limited time offer, offer for a limited time"). 2. Semantic incompleteness: a. The absence of internal components in the sentence leads to unclear or unintelligible meaning expression b. The sentence ends with ".." or "..." 3. Mixed sentence patterns: The sentence is internally complete, but the sentence patterns are mixed together among multiple sentences, resulting in a chaotic structure and incoherent flow 4. Punctuation errors: a. Missing punctuation b. Misuse of punctuation c. Improper use of punctuation (such as meaningless spaces) 5. Undecipherable characters/typos: a. Unrecognized characters, symbols, or encoding errors appear in the text (such as "click to view &gt;&gt;") b. Obvious typos (using Chinese characters that look similar but have different meanings, or using words with the same pronunciation but different characters, e.g., " 三日游" -> " 三曰游") c. Professional terminology is altered by adding or changing characters (e.g., " 银屑病" -> " 银皮病") d. The sentence contains a file format name, such as ".doc", ".txt", etc e. Insert English letters into Chinese characters without forming English words or conveying special meanings f. The sentence contains content with website meanings such as "www.", ".cn", ".tv", etc ### The criteria of Pass: The basic quality is **"Pass" only when none of the aforementioned five issues exists**. Otherwise, it is "Fail". ### Evaluation steps you must follow 1. Reading: • Carefully read the candidate ad description 2. Check item by item: • For each issue (repetition, incomplete semantics, mixed sentence structures, punctuation errors, garbled text/typos), determine whether it exists and record the basis for the determination • If any other types of linguistic issues are found, please specify them in ’final_verdict_reason’ 3. Adjudication: • Based on the inspection results, provide the "Pass/Fail" status and reasons for each sub-dimension • Based on all sub-dimensions, a final conclusion ’final_verdict’ is drawn: if all sub-dimensions are "Pass", then ’final_verdict’ = "Pass"; otherwise, it is "Fail" ### Output format Structured Output Format: Output strictly in accordance with the following JSON format, without any additional text: {"assessment": { "content_quality": { "final_verdict": "Pass/Fail", "final_verdict_reason": "If it fails, list the existing language quality issues." }}}

Table 5: Predefined rubrics and prompt for the evaluation of basic quality. Translated to English. 

Task Prompt 

Based on the given inputs of user search query and ad landing page information, generating a high-quality ad description that integrates appropriate world knowledge to satisfy user intent and contains faithful selling points from landing page to represent product advantages, through a multi-turn iteration process: integrating retrieved knowledge relevant to query, requesting reward signals for obtaining fine-grained feedbacks of initial generation, and iteratively refining it with the received feedbacks. Execution steps: Think: Every time you receive new information, you must first conduct reasoning between <think> and </think> .Retrieval Knowledge: At the beginning of execution, if you find that you lack relevant information for the user query, you can call the search engine using 

<retrieve> Retrieve relevant knowledge of [user query] </retrieve> , and the retrieved content will be returned between <information> and </information> .Generate: Place the generated description between <create> and </create> , immediately followed by <reward> request reward models </reward> for requesting rewards that providing detailed feedbacks about knowledge capacity and landing page consistency. Iteratively Refine: After receiving the fine-grained feedback enclosed in <check> and </check> , please optimize the generated description based on the feedback. 

Table 6: The task prompt of our I NTERACTOR framework. Translated to English. 

11